snaps/learn/resources.md, before:

---
description: See more Snaps resources.
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Resources

View the following Snaps resources in addition to this documentation site.

## Primary resources

- [Snaps homepage](https://metamask.io/snaps/)
- [Snaps directory](https://snaps.metamask.io/) - A directory of allowlisted 
  Snaps you can try in the MetaMask extension.
- [SIPs](https://github.com/MetaMask/SIPs) - Suggest new Snaps APIs with 
  Snaps Improvement Proposals.
- [Builder Engagement Program](https://go.metamask.io/snaps-builders) - 
  Connect with the Snaps builder engagement team and get support while building 
  your Snap.

## Example Snaps

- [Example Snaps](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/examples) - 
  A directory of Snaps maintained by MetaMask.
- [Linea Voyager](https://github.com/Consensys/linea-voyager-snap) - View Linea 
  XP balance, PoH status, and current Linea Voyage activations from within MetaMask.
- [Starknet](https://github.com/Consensys/starknet-snap) - Adds Starknet account 
  and transaction functionality to MetaMask.
- [Simple Keyring Snap](https://github.com/MetaMask/snap-simple-keyring) - An 
  example account management Snap using the [Keyring API](../reference/keyring-api/index.md).
- [Mystery Fox](https://github.com/Montoya/mystery-fox) - Provides random answers to 
  questions and showcases interactive UI and images.
- [Farcaster Insights](https://github.com/Montoya/farcaster-insights) - Shows if 
  the recipient in a transaction request has a Farcaster account and their stats.
- [Smart Account Template](https://github.com/bcnmy/smart-account-keyring-template) - 
  Template for integrating the Biconomy Smart Account with the 
  [Keyring API](../reference/keyring-api/index.md).
- [Text Transformer](https://github.com/Montoya/transformer-snap) - Transforms 
  strings into Unicode bold, italic, and strikethrough characters for use on social 
  media. Demonstrates [interactive JSX UI](../features/custom-ui/index.md) in a home page.
- [Social Names](https://github.com/Montoya/social-names-snap) - Adds Farcaster and 
  Lens handles to the send flow and petnames using 
  [custom name resolution](../features/custom-name-resolution.md).

## Developer tools

- [Template Snap](https://github.com/MetaMask/template-snap-monorepo) - A rich template that
  includes TypeScript/React and vanilla JavaScript options, a CLI for building, packaging, and
  deploying your Snap, and a companion dapp UI you can build on.
- [Test Snaps](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/test-snaps) - A collection of
  test Snaps and [a dapp for evaluating them](https://metamask.github.io/snaps/test-snaps/latest/).
- [`snaps-jest`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@metamask/snaps-jest) - A Jest preset for end-to-end 
  testing MetaMask Snaps, including a Jest environment, and a set of Jest matchers.
  See [how to test a Snap](../how-to/test-a-snap.md) using `snaps-jest`.
- [Snaps Simulator](https://metamask.github.io/snaps/snaps-simulator/latest) - A tool for simulating
  Snaps in the browser, streamlining the development process. It doesn't support all Snaps features 
  but can be useful for testing certain features.
- [MetaMask Testing Tools](https://hugomrdias.github.io/metamask/) - A collection of tools for 
  testing MetaMask, MetaMask Flask, and MetaMask Snaps with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/), 
  delivered as an npm package that provides a `createFixture` function that returns a `test` and 
  `expect` function that can be used to write tests.

## Blog posts

- [Making the Wallet Personal](https://thedefiant.io/making-the-wallet-personal) by Christian
  Montoya
- [Permissionless Innovation and You](https://metamask.io/news/latest/permissionless-innovation-and-you/)
  by Erik Marks
- [Snaps in MetaMask Stable and Where We Go From
  Here](https://metamask.io/news/latest/snaps-in-metamask-stable-and-where-we-go-from-here/) by Dan
  Finlay
- [MetaMask Snaps Launch with Hardened JavaScript Under the
  Hood](https://agoric.com/blog/announcements/metamask-snaps-launch-with-hardened-javascript-under-the-hood) 
  by Agoric
- [Navigating the Security Landscape of MetaMask Snaps](https://metamask.io/news/developers/navigating-the-security-landscape-of-metamask-snaps/)
  by Martin Ortner & Valentin Quelquejay
- [Going Beyond The Secret Recovery Phrase In MetaMask With Account Management Snaps](https://metamask.io/news/latest/going-beyond-the-secret-recovery-phrase-in-metamask-with-account-management/) by Alex Jupiter

## Videos

- [MetaMask Snaps Public Launch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cbkjbYd71OY) (12 min)
- [What is MetaMask Snaps? Main Functions and Features Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dlw9yLpEm7E) (53 mins)
- [Deep Dive into MetaMask Snaps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qXEBqamnv5w) (57 min)
- [Building a Universal Web3 Interface](https://vimeo.com/864943019)
  (16 min) ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pnx6JdpFaj6LsW3B89jqumYgmHvirOE2H-_2S1ggRvY/edit?usp=sharing))
- [It's Our Wallet, Let's Build It Together](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6qunL2gnjE) (19 min)
  ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZjhYF-3mwGmsFdcbDgqgFR6t3YIab4_Hk3dRAWjvSQg/edit?usp=sharing))
- [Building the Future with MetaMask Snaps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iE8CGzadKZ8&t=288s) (22 min)
  ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LG8MqRrbb9qSg4m8ZjJXPQFccb9YPc-6387hSNpscpY/edit?usp=sharing))
- [MetaMask Snaps YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJ8kQp5OiaEM6ad6mC1NmJCGJSZm7cBfI)
- [How to Build Your Own Polkadot MetaMask Snap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vyb1wVFahvM) (32 min)
- [How to Build and Customize a MetaMask Snap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4bt8udi7po0) (47 min)

## Community

- [Snaps GitHub discussions](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/discussions) - Browse 
  discussions and ask questions about Snaps.
- [Consensys Discord](https://discord.gg/consensys) - Ask questions about Snaps on 
  the **mm-snaps-dev** channel.
- [Snaps GitHub issues](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/issues) - If you encounter 
  any issues with Snaps, open a GitHub issue.

## Snaps for developers

Many Snaps are designed to be used by developers.

- [CubeSigner](https://cubist.dev/cubesigner-snap-hardware-backed-key-management-for-metamask-developers) - 
  Enables dapp developers to manage keys for Ethereum, Bitcoin, Solana, and more using 
  secure remote hardware.
- [Galactica ZK Vault](https://docs.galactica.com/galactica-developer-documentation) - 
  Integrates the Galactica Network for dapps to leverage ZK-proofs for compliant privacy.
- [Hedera Wallet](https://docs.tuum.tech/hedera-wallet-snap) - Build Hedera dapps with 
  the methods provided by Hedera Wallet.
- [Leap Wallet](https://docs.leapwallet.io/cosmos/leap-metamask-snap/integrating-snaps) - 
  Connect Cosmos dapps to MetaMask with Leap Wallet.
- [MinaPortal](https://github.com/sotatek-dev/mina-snap/tree/master/packages/snap#methods) - 
  Build ZkApps on Mina Network with the dapp methods provided by MinaPortal.

Commit message:

Add Snapper security scanning tool (#1830)
* Add Snapper security scanning tool

* Add notes to Snaps Get Allowlisted

---------

Co-authored-by: Christian Montoya <christian.montoya@consensys.net>

snaps/learn/resources.md, after:

---
description: See more Snaps resources.
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Resources

View the following Snaps resources in addition to this documentation site.

## Primary resources

- [Snaps homepage](https://metamask.io/snaps/)
- [Snaps directory](https://snaps.metamask.io/) - A directory of allowlisted 
  Snaps you can try in the MetaMask extension.
- [SIPs](https://github.com/MetaMask/SIPs) - Suggest new Snaps APIs with 
  Snaps Improvement Proposals.
- [Builder Engagement Program](https://go.metamask.io/snaps-builders) - 
  Connect with the Snaps builder engagement team and get support while building 
  your Snap.

## Example Snaps

- [Example Snaps](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/examples) - 
  A directory of Snaps maintained by MetaMask.
- [Linea Voyager](https://github.com/Consensys/linea-voyager-snap) - View Linea 
  XP balance, PoH status, and current Linea Voyage activations from within MetaMask.
- [Starknet](https://github.com/Consensys/starknet-snap) - Adds Starknet account 
  and transaction functionality to MetaMask.
- [Simple Keyring Snap](https://github.com/MetaMask/snap-simple-keyring) - An 
  example account management Snap using the [Keyring API](../reference/keyring-api/index.md).
- [Mystery Fox](https://github.com/Montoya/mystery-fox) - Provides random answers to 
  questions and showcases interactive UI and images.
- [Farcaster Insights](https://github.com/Montoya/farcaster-insights) - Shows if 
  the recipient in a transaction request has a Farcaster account and their stats.
- [Smart Account Template](https://github.com/bcnmy/smart-account-keyring-template) - 
  Template for integrating the Biconomy Smart Account with the 
  [Keyring API](../reference/keyring-api/index.md).
- [Text Transformer](https://github.com/Montoya/transformer-snap) - Transforms 
  strings into Unicode bold, italic, and strikethrough characters for use on social 
  media. Demonstrates [interactive JSX UI](../features/custom-ui/index.md) in a home page.
- [Social Names](https://github.com/Montoya/social-names-snap) - Adds Farcaster and 
  Lens handles to the send flow and petnames using 
  [custom name resolution](../features/custom-name-resolution.md).

## Developer tools

- [Template Snap](https://github.com/MetaMask/template-snap-monorepo) - A rich template that
  includes TypeScript/React and vanilla JavaScript options, a CLI for building, packaging, and
  deploying your Snap, and a companion dapp UI you can build on.
- [Test Snaps](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/test-snaps) - A collection of
  test Snaps and [a dapp for evaluating them](https://metamask.github.io/snaps/test-snaps/latest/).
- [`snaps-jest`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@metamask/snaps-jest) - A Jest preset for end-to-end 
  testing MetaMask Snaps, including a Jest environment, and a set of Jest matchers.
  See [how to test a Snap](../how-to/test-a-snap.md) using `snaps-jest`.
- [Snaps Simulator](https://metamask.github.io/snaps/snaps-simulator/latest) - A tool for simulating
  Snaps in the browser, streamlining the development process. It doesn't support all Snaps features 
  but can be useful for testing certain features.
- [Snapper](https://github.com/sayfer-io/Snapper) - A tool for detecting security vulnerabilities,
  identifying potential issues, and ensuring best coding practices in your Snap.
- [MetaMask Testing Tools](https://hugomrdias.github.io/metamask/) - A collection of tools for 
  testing MetaMask, MetaMask Flask, and MetaMask Snaps with [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/), 
  delivered as an npm package that provides a `createFixture` function that returns a `test` and 
  `expect` function that can be used to write tests.

## Blog posts

- [Making the Wallet Personal](https://thedefiant.io/making-the-wallet-personal) by Christian
  Montoya
- [Permissionless Innovation and You](https://metamask.io/news/latest/permissionless-innovation-and-you/)
  by Erik Marks
- [Snaps in MetaMask Stable and Where We Go From
  Here](https://metamask.io/news/latest/snaps-in-metamask-stable-and-where-we-go-from-here/) by Dan
  Finlay
- [MetaMask Snaps Launch with Hardened JavaScript Under the
  Hood](https://agoric.com/blog/announcements/metamask-snaps-launch-with-hardened-javascript-under-the-hood) 
  by Agoric
- [Navigating the Security Landscape of MetaMask Snaps](https://metamask.io/news/developers/navigating-the-security-landscape-of-metamask-snaps/)
  by Martin Ortner & Valentin Quelquejay
- [Going Beyond The Secret Recovery Phrase In MetaMask With Account Management Snaps](https://metamask.io/news/latest/going-beyond-the-secret-recovery-phrase-in-metamask-with-account-management/) by Alex Jupiter

## Videos

- [MetaMask Snaps Public Launch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cbkjbYd71OY) (12 min)
- [What is MetaMask Snaps? Main Functions and Features Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dlw9yLpEm7E) (53 mins)
- [Deep Dive into MetaMask Snaps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qXEBqamnv5w) (57 min)
- [Building a Universal Web3 Interface](https://vimeo.com/864943019)
  (16 min) ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pnx6JdpFaj6LsW3B89jqumYgmHvirOE2H-_2S1ggRvY/edit?usp=sharing))
- [It's Our Wallet, Let's Build It Together](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6qunL2gnjE) (19 min)
  ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZjhYF-3mwGmsFdcbDgqgFR6t3YIab4_Hk3dRAWjvSQg/edit?usp=sharing))
- [Building the Future with MetaMask Snaps](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iE8CGzadKZ8&t=288s) (22 min)
  ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LG8MqRrbb9qSg4m8ZjJXPQFccb9YPc-6387hSNpscpY/edit?usp=sharing))
- [MetaMask Snaps YouTube playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJ8kQp5OiaEM6ad6mC1NmJCGJSZm7cBfI)
- [How to Build Your Own Polkadot MetaMask Snap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vyb1wVFahvM) (32 min)
- [How to Build and Customize a MetaMask Snap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4bt8udi7po0) (47 min)

## Community

- [Snaps GitHub discussions](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/discussions) - Browse 
  discussions and ask questions about Snaps.
- [Consensys Discord](https://discord.gg/consensys) - Ask questions about Snaps on 
  the **mm-snaps-dev** channel.
- [Snaps GitHub issues](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/issues) - If you encounter 
  any issues with Snaps, open a GitHub issue.

## Snaps for developers

Many Snaps are designed to be used by developers.

- [CubeSigner](https://cubist.dev/cubesigner-snap-hardware-backed-key-management-for-metamask-developers) - 
  Enables dapp developers to manage keys for Ethereum, Bitcoin, Solana, and more using 
  secure remote hardware.
- [Galactica ZK Vault](https://docs.galactica.com/galactica-developer-documentation) - 
  Integrates the Galactica Network for dapps to leverage ZK-proofs for compliant privacy.
- [Hedera Wallet](https://docs.tuum.tech/hedera-wallet-snap) - Build Hedera dapps with 
  the methods provided by Hedera Wallet.
- [Leap Wallet](https://docs.leapwallet.io/cosmos/leap-metamask-snap/integrating-snaps) - 
  Connect Cosmos dapps to MetaMask with Leap Wallet.
- [MinaPortal](https://github.com/sotatek-dev/mina-snap/tree/master/packages/snap#methods) - 
  Build ZkApps on Mina Network with the dapp methods provided by MinaPortal.
