snaps/features/custom-ui/dialogs.md, before:

---
description: Display custom alert, confirmation, or prompt screens in MetaMask.
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Dialogs

You can display a dialog in the MetaMask UI using the
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) API method.
Dialogs can contain [custom UI](index.md) and [interactive UI](interactive-ui.md) components.

There are four types of dialogs: [alerts](#display-an-alert-dialog),
[confirmations](#display-a-confirmation-dialog), [prompts](#display-a-prompt-dialog), and
[custom dialogs](#display-a-custom-dialog).

:::caution
Dialogs do not work when MetaMask is locked.
To check if MetaMask is locked, use
[`snap_getClientStatus`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_getclientstatus).
:::

## Request permission to display dialogs

To display dialogs, first request the [`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) permission.
Add the following to your Snap's manifest file:

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
"initialPermissions": {
  "snap_dialog": {}
}
```

## Display an alert dialog

To display an alert that can only be acknowledged, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "alert"`.
The following example displays custom UI that alerts the user when something happens in the system:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import { Box, Text, Heading } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

await snap.request({
  method: "snap_dialog",
  params: {
    type: "alert",
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Something happened in the system</Heading>
        <Text>The thing that happened is...</Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  },
});

// Code that should execute after the alert has been acknowledged.
```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/alert-dialog.png").default} alt="Alert dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Display a confirmation dialog

To display a confirmation that can be accepted or rejected, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "confirmation"`.
The following example displays custom UI that asks the user to confirm whether they would like to
take an action:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import { Box, Text, Heading } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

const result = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_dialog",
  params: {
    type: "confirmation",
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Would you like to take the action?</Heading>
        <Text>The action is...</Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  },
});

if (result === true) {
  // Do the action.
}
```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/confirmation-dialog.png").default} alt="Confirmation dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Display a prompt dialog

To display a prompt where the user can enter a text response, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "prompt"`.
Prompt dialogs also accept a `placeholder` value that displays in the input field when no text is entered.

The following example displays custom UI that prompts the user to enter a wallet address:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import { Box, Text, Heading } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

const walletAddress = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_dialog",
  params: {
    type: "prompt",
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>What is the wallet address?</Heading>
        <Text>Please enter the wallet address to be monitored</Text>
      </Box>
    ),
    placeholder: "0x123...",
  },
});

// walletAddress will be a string containing the address entered by the user.
```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/prompt-dialog.png").default} alt="Prompt dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Display a custom dialog

To display a custom dialog, call [`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog)
without providing a `type`. Custom dialogs can be resolved by calling [`snap_resolveInterface`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_resolveinterface). The UI passed to a custom dialog should contain a `Footer` element. Its buttons will be displayed at the bottom of the dialog. Here is a complete example:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import {
  UserInputEventType,
  type OnRpcRequestHandler,
  type OnUserInputHandler,
} from "@metamask/snaps-sdk";
import {
  Box,
  Text,
  Heading,
  Container,
  Footer,
  Button,
} from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

/**
 * Handle incoming JSON-RPC requests, sent through wallet_invokeSnap.
 *
 * @param args - The request handler args as object.
 * @param args.origin - The origin of the request, e.g., the website that
 * invoked the snap.
 * @param args.request - A validated JSON-RPC request object.
 * @returns The result of snap_dialog.
 * @throws If the request method is not valid for this snap.
 */
export const onRpcRequest: OnRpcRequestHandler = async () => {
  const result = await snap.request({
    method: "snap_dialog",
    params: {
      content: (
        <Container>
          <Box>
            <Heading>Custom Dialog</Heading>
            <Text>
              This is a custom dialog reproducing a confirmation dialog.
              <br />
              Do you accept?
            </Text>
          </Box>
          <Footer>
            <Button name="no">No</Button>
            <Button name="yes">Yes</Button>
          </Footer>
        </Container>
      ),
    },
  });

  console.log("result", result); // Result will be true or false.

  return result;
};

export const onUserInput: OnUserInputHandler = async ({ id, event }) => {
  if (event.type === UserInputEventType.ButtonClickEvent) {
    switch (event.name) {
      case "no": // User selected "No" in the footer.
        await snap.request({
          method: "snap_resolveInterface",
          params: {
            id,
            value: false,
          },
        });
        break;

      case "yes": {
        // User selected "Yes" in the footer
        await snap.request({
          method: "snap_resolveInterface",
          params: {
            id,
            value: true,
          },
        });
        break;
      }

      default:
        break;
    }
  }
};
```

This code outputs a custom dialog with two buttons: **Yes** and **No**. 
When the user selects one of the buttons, `onUserInput` is called with the button's name. From there, `snap_resolveInterface` is called. This resolves the dialog, and returns the value passed to `snap_resolveInterface` as the result of the dialog.

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/custom-dialog.png").default} alt="Custom dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Example

See the [`@metamask/dialog-example-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/examples/packages/dialogs)
package for a full example of implementing dialogs.
This example exposes a [custom JSON-RPC API](../../learn/about-snaps/apis.md#custom-json-rpc-apis)
for dapps to display dialogs.

Commit message:

Snap dialogs do not support `metamask::` urls

snaps/features/custom-ui/dialogs.md, after:

---
description: Display custom alert, confirmation, or prompt screens in MetaMask.
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Dialogs

You can display a dialog in the MetaMask UI using the
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) API method.
Dialogs can contain [custom UI](index.md) and [interactive UI](interactive-ui.md) components.

There are four types of dialogs: [alerts](#display-an-alert-dialog),
[confirmations](#display-a-confirmation-dialog), [prompts](#display-a-prompt-dialog), and
[custom dialogs](#display-a-custom-dialog).

:::warning
- Dialogs do not work when MetaMask is locked.
  To check if MetaMask is locked, use
  [`snap_getClientStatus`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_getclientstatus).
- [`metamask:` URLs](index.md#about-metamask-urls) are not supported in dialogs.
:::

## Request permission to display dialogs

To display dialogs, first request the [`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) permission.
Add the following to your Snap's manifest file:

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
"initialPermissions": {
  "snap_dialog": {}
}
```

## Display an alert dialog

To display an alert that can only be acknowledged, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "alert"`.
The following example displays custom UI that alerts the user when something happens in the system:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import { Box, Text, Heading } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

await snap.request({
  method: "snap_dialog",
  params: {
    type: "alert",
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Something happened in the system</Heading>
        <Text>The thing that happened is...</Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  },
});

// Code that should execute after the alert has been acknowledged.
```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/alert-dialog.png").default} alt="Alert dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Display a confirmation dialog

To display a confirmation that can be accepted or rejected, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "confirmation"`.
The following example displays custom UI that asks the user to confirm whether they would like to
take an action:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import { Box, Text, Heading } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

const result = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_dialog",
  params: {
    type: "confirmation",
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Would you like to take the action?</Heading>
        <Text>The action is...</Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  },
});

if (result === true) {
  // Do the action.
}
```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/confirmation-dialog.png").default} alt="Confirmation dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Display a prompt dialog

To display a prompt where the user can enter a text response, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "prompt"`.
Prompt dialogs also accept a `placeholder` value that displays in the input field when no text is entered.

The following example displays custom UI that prompts the user to enter a wallet address:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import { Box, Text, Heading } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

const walletAddress = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_dialog",
  params: {
    type: "prompt",
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>What is the wallet address?</Heading>
        <Text>Please enter the wallet address to be monitored</Text>
      </Box>
    ),
    placeholder: "0x123...",
  },
});

// walletAddress will be a string containing the address entered by the user.
```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/prompt-dialog.png").default} alt="Prompt dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Display a custom dialog

To display a custom dialog, call [`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog)
without providing a `type`. Custom dialogs can be resolved by calling [`snap_resolveInterface`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_resolveinterface). The UI passed to a custom dialog should contain a `Footer` element. Its buttons will be displayed at the bottom of the dialog. Here is a complete example:

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import {
  UserInputEventType,
  type OnRpcRequestHandler,
  type OnUserInputHandler,
} from "@metamask/snaps-sdk";
import {
  Box,
  Text,
  Heading,
  Container,
  Footer,
  Button,
} from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

/**
 * Handle incoming JSON-RPC requests, sent through wallet_invokeSnap.
 *
 * @param args - The request handler args as object.
 * @param args.origin - The origin of the request, e.g., the website that
 * invoked the snap.
 * @param args.request - A validated JSON-RPC request object.
 * @returns The result of snap_dialog.
 * @throws If the request method is not valid for this snap.
 */
export const onRpcRequest: OnRpcRequestHandler = async () => {
  const result = await snap.request({
    method: "snap_dialog",
    params: {
      content: (
        <Container>
          <Box>
            <Heading>Custom Dialog</Heading>
            <Text>
              This is a custom dialog reproducing a confirmation dialog.
              <br />
              Do you accept?
            </Text>
          </Box>
          <Footer>
            <Button name="no">No</Button>
            <Button name="yes">Yes</Button>
          </Footer>
        </Container>
      ),
    },
  });

  console.log("result", result); // Result will be true or false.

  return result;
};

export const onUserInput: OnUserInputHandler = async ({ id, event }) => {
  if (event.type === UserInputEventType.ButtonClickEvent) {
    switch (event.name) {
      case "no": // User selected "No" in the footer.
        await snap.request({
          method: "snap_resolveInterface",
          params: {
            id,
            value: false,
          },
        });
        break;

      case "yes": {
        // User selected "Yes" in the footer
        await snap.request({
          method: "snap_resolveInterface",
          params: {
            id,
            value: true,
          },
        });
        break;
      }

      default:
        break;
    }
  }
};
```

This code outputs a custom dialog with two buttons: **Yes** and **No**. 
When the user selects one of the buttons, `onUserInput` is called with the button's name. From there, `snap_resolveInterface` is called. This resolves the dialog, and returns the value passed to `snap_resolveInterface` as the result of the dialog.

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/custom-dialog.png").default} alt="Custom dialog example" width="360px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

## Example

See the [`@metamask/dialog-example-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/examples/packages/dialogs)
package for a full example of implementing dialogs.
This example exposes a [custom JSON-RPC API](../../learn/about-snaps/apis.md#custom-json-rpc-apis)
for dapps to display dialogs.
