delegation-toolkit/get-started/supported-networks.md, before:

---
title: Supported networks
sidebar_label: Supported networks
description: Supported networks for Delegation Toolkit.
keywords: [MetaMask, delegation toolkit, supported networks, mainnet, testnet]
---

The following tables display the networks supported by each version of the MetaMask Delegation Toolkit.

If you don't see the network you're looking for, you can request support by emailing hellogators@consensys.net.

## Mainnet networks

| Network Name        | v0.11.0 | v0.12.0 | v0.13.0 |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------- |
| Ethereum            | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Polygon             | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Binance Smart Chain | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Optimism            | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Arbitrum One        | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Base                | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Gnosis Chain        | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Unichain            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Arbitrum Nova       | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Berachain           | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Ink                 | ❌      | ❌      | ✅      |

## Testnet networks

| Network Name                | v0.11.0 | v0.12.0 | v0.13.0 |
| --------------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------- |
| Ethereum Sepolia            | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Base Sepolia                | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| MegaEth                     | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Gnosis Chiado               | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Arbitrum Sepolia            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Unichain Sepolia            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Berachain Bepolia           | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Optimism Sepolia            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Binance Smart Chain         | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Polygon Amoy                | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Monad                       | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Ink Sepolia                 | ❌      | ❌      | ✅      | 
| Citrea                      | ❌      | ❌      | ✅      |

Commit message:

Prepare content for Smart Accounts Kit
* rebrand delegation toolkit to smart accounts kit

* fix broken links

* udpate getDeleGatorEnvironment docs

* revert url changes and clean up

* minor fixes

* fix anchor link

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <alexandra.carrillo@consensys.net>

delegation-toolkit/get-started/supported-networks.md, after:

---
title: Supported networks
sidebar_label: Supported networks
description: Supported networks for Smart Accounts Kit.
keywords: [MetaMask, smart accounts kit, supported networks, mainnet, testnet]
---

The following tables display the networks supported by each version of the Smart Accounts Kit.

If you don't see the network you're looking for, you can request support by emailing hellogators@consensys.net.

## Mainnet networks

| Network Name        | v0.11.0 | v0.12.0 | v0.13.0 |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------- |
| Ethereum            | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Polygon             | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Binance Smart Chain | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Optimism            | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Arbitrum One        | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Base                | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Gnosis Chain        | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Unichain            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Arbitrum Nova       | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Berachain           | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Ink                 | ❌      | ❌      | ✅      |

## Testnet networks

| Network Name                | v0.11.0 | v0.12.0 | v0.13.0 |
| --------------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------- |
| Ethereum Sepolia            | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Base Sepolia                | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| MegaEth                     | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Gnosis Chiado               | ✅      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Arbitrum Sepolia            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Unichain Sepolia            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Berachain Bepolia           | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Optimism Sepolia            | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Binance Smart Chain         | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Polygon Amoy                | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Monad                       | ❌      | ✅      | ✅      |
| Ink Sepolia                 | ❌      | ❌      | ✅      | 
| Citrea                      | ❌      | ❌      | ✅      |
