snaps/get-started/install-flask.md, before:

---
description: Install MetaMask Flask to start building your own Snaps.
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Install MetaMask Flask

To build your own Snaps or test upcoming MetaMask features, install the MetaMask Flask browser
extension on [Google Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/metamask-flask-developmen/ljfoeinjpaedjfecbmggjgodbgkmjkjk)
or [Mozilla Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/metamask-flask/).

Install Flask in a new browser profile, or disable any existing installed versions of MetaMask
before installing Flask.
Running multiple instances of MetaMask in the same browser profile can break dapp interactions.

:::note Developers only
MetaMask Flask is an experimental tool only for developers.
If you are not a developer, you should not install MetaMask Flask.
:::

:::warning Do not import accounts with funds to Flask
We do not recommend importing your Secret Recovery Phrase from MetaMask stable to MetaMask Flask.
If you import accounts with funds into Flask, you do so at your own risk.
:::

## About MetaMask Flask

MetaMask Flask is an experimental playground that provides developers access to upcoming MetaMask features.
While a small set of audited Snaps are allowlisted in the stable version of the MetaMask browser
extension, MetaMask Flask is intended for developers building and testing Snaps locally or from npm.
Also, new MetaMask features are enabled in Flask for testing and developer feedback before they're
enabled in MetaMask stable.
These features appear in the documentation with the **Flask** or **FLASK ONLY** tag.
You can also view Flask-specific features by looking for the **\[FLASK\]** label in the
[MetaMask Extension changelog](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-extension/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Update snaps allowlisting guide (#2254)
* Remove one resource and add 2 others

* More details on how to publish a Snap

Also reference the install tester tool instead of the sandbox

* Remove requirement for builder engagement onboarding

* Extra callout about Flask

* Update URLs in allowlisting guide

* Warn about account Snaps

* Update index.md

* revert line breaks and update prettier config

* more edits and remove onboarding form from quickstart

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran <alexandratran@protonmail.com>

snaps/get-started/install-flask.md, after:

---
description: Install MetaMask Flask to start building your own Snaps.
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Install MetaMask Flask

To build your own Snaps or test upcoming MetaMask features, install the MetaMask Flask browser
extension on [Google Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/metamask-flask-developmen/ljfoeinjpaedjfecbmggjgodbgkmjkjk)
or [Mozilla Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/metamask-flask/).

Install Flask in a new browser profile, or disable any existing installed versions of MetaMask
before installing Flask.
Running multiple instances of MetaMask in the same browser profile can break dapp interactions.

:::note Developers only
MetaMask Flask is an experimental tool only for developers.
If you are not a developer, you should not install MetaMask Flask.
:::

:::warning Do not import accounts with funds to Flask
We do not recommend importing your Secret Recovery Phrase from MetaMask stable to MetaMask Flask.
If you import accounts with funds into Flask, you do so at your own risk.
:::

## About MetaMask Flask

MetaMask Flask is an experimental playground that provides developers access to upcoming MetaMask features.
While a small set of audited Snaps are allowlisted in the stable version of the MetaMask browser
extension, MetaMask Flask is intended for developers building and testing Snaps locally or from npm.
Also, new MetaMask features are enabled in Flask for testing and developer feedback before they're
enabled in MetaMask stable.
These features appear in the documentation with the **Flask** or **FLASK ONLY** tag.
You can also view Flask-specific features by looking for the **\[FLASK\]** label in the 
[MetaMask Extension changelog](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-extension/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md).

:::note
You should not encourage end users to install Flask.
It is not guaranteed to be reliable.
Also, if you do not [submit your Snap for the allowlist](../how-to/get-allowlisted.md), it will not be listed in the [MetaMask Snaps Directory](https://snaps.metamask.io), so users will not be able to find your Snap.
:::
