snaps/get-started/quickstart.md, before:

---
description: Get started quickly using the create-snap starter kit.
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import YoutubeEmbed from "@site/src/components/YoutubeEmbed";

# Snaps quickstart

Get started creating your own Snap.
Use the [`@metamask/create-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/create-snap)
starter kit to initialize a Snap monorepo project built with TypeScript and React.
See the following video demo:

<YoutubeEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qZRAryYwgdg?si=CeImIULgH3iD-FF0" />

## Prerequisites

- [MetaMask Flask installed](install-flask.md)
- A text editor (for example, [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/))
- [Node](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) version 20.11 or later
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

## Create the project

Create a new Snap project using the [`@metamask/create-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/create-snap)
starter kit by running:

```bash
yarn create @metamask/snap your-snap-name
```

or

```bash
npx @metamask/create-snap your-snap-name
```

or

```bash
npm create @metamask/snap your-snap-name
```

See [Snaps files](../learn/about-snaps/files.md) to learn about your Snap project files.

## Start the Snap

From the root of the newly created project, install the project dependencies using Yarn:

```shell
yarn install
```

You may get a warning like the following:

```bash
@lavamoat/allow-scripts has detected dependencies without configuration. explicit configuration required.
run "allow-scripts auto" to automatically populate the configuration.
```

You can fix this by running the following command:

```bash
yarn run allow-scripts auto
```

Start the development server:

```shell
yarn start
```

You are now serving the Snap at [`http://localhost:8080`](http://localhost:8080/) and its front-end dapp at [`http://localhost:8000`](http://localhost:8000/).

## Connect to the Snap

On the front-end dapp, select the **Connect** button and the MetaMask Flask extension pops up and
requires you to approve the Snap's permissions.

Once connected, select the **Send message** button to display a custom message within a confirmation
dialog in MetaMask Flask.

## Customize the Snap

Open the project in a text editor.
You can customize your Snap by editing `index.ts` in the `packages/snap/src` folder.

`index.ts` contains an example request that uses the
[`snap_dialog`](../reference/snaps-api.md#snapdialog) method to display a custom confirmation screen:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="JSX">

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import type { OnRpcRequestHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk";
import { Box, Text, Bold } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

/**
 * Handle incoming JSON-RPC requests, sent through wallet_invokeSnap.
 *
 * @param args - The request handler arguments as an object.
 * @param args.origin - The origin of the request, e.g., the website that invoked the Snap.
 * @param args.request - A validated JSON-RPC request object.
 * @returns The result of snap_dialog.
 * @throws If the request method is not valid for this Snap.
 */
export const onRpcRequest: OnRpcRequestHandler = async ({
  origin,
  request,
}) => {
  switch (request.method) {
    case "hello":
      return snap.request({
        method: "snap_dialog",
        params: {
          type: "confirmation",
          content: (
            <Box>
              <Text>Hello, <Bold>{origin}</Bold>!</Text>
              <Text>This custom confirmation is just for display purposes.</Text>
              <Text>But you can edit the Snap source code to make it do something, if you want to!</Text>
            </Box>
          ),
        },
      });
    default:
      throw new Error("Method not found.");
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Functions" deprecated>

```ts title="index.ts"
import type { OnRpcRequestHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"
import { panel, text } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"

/**
 * Handle incoming JSON-RPC requests, sent through wallet_invokeSnap.
 *
 * @param args - The request handler arguments as an object.
 * @param args.origin - The origin of the request, e.g., the website that invoked the Snap.
 * @param args.request - A validated JSON-RPC request object.
 * @returns The result of snap_dialog.
 * @throws If the request method is not valid for this Snap.
 */
export const onRpcRequest: OnRpcRequestHandler = async ({
  origin,
  request,
}) => {
  switch (request.method) {
    case "hello":
      return snap.request({
        method: "snap_dialog",
        params: {
          type: "confirmation",
          content: panel([
            text(`Hello, **${origin}**!`),
            text("This custom confirmation is just for display purposes."),
            text(
              "But you can edit the Snap source code to make it do something, if you want to!"
            ),
          ]),
        },
      })
    default:
      throw new Error("Method not found.")
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Edit the text in any `text()` component and select the **Reconnect** button
on the front-end to re-install the Snap.

:::note
MetaMask Flask automatically re-installs locally hosted Snaps whenever it receives a connection request for them.
:::

The next time you select the **Send message** button, you see the updated text in the confirmation dialog.

You've now successfully connected, installed, interacted with, and customized your Snap!

## Next steps

- To learn more about the Snaps system, review [fundamental Snaps concepts](/snaps/learn/about-snaps)
  and try the [Snaps tutorials](/snaps/learn/tutorials).
- To implement specific features and use cases, see the [Snaps feature guides](/snaps/features).
- To follow best practices for developing a Snap, see the [Snaps how-to guides](/snaps/how-to).

Commit message:

fix: add link onboarding document in snap allowlist (#1510)
* fix: add link onboarding document in snap allowlist

* Move onboarding form to quickstart and prerequisites

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran <alexandratran@protonmail.com>

snaps/get-started/quickstart.md, after:

---
description: Get started quickly using the create-snap starter kit.
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import YoutubeEmbed from "@site/src/components/YoutubeEmbed";

# Snaps quickstart

Get started creating your own Snap.
Use the [`@metamask/create-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/create-snap)
starter kit to initialize a Snap monorepo project built with TypeScript and React.
See the following video demo:

<YoutubeEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qZRAryYwgdg?si=CeImIULgH3iD-FF0" />

## Prerequisites

- [MetaMask Flask installed](install-flask.md)
- A text editor (for example, [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/))
- [Node](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) version 20.11 or later
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

## Create the project

Create a new Snap project using the [`@metamask/create-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/create-snap)
starter kit by running:

```bash
yarn create @metamask/snap your-snap-name
```

or

```bash
npx @metamask/create-snap your-snap-name
```

or

```bash
npm create @metamask/snap your-snap-name
```

See [Snaps files](../learn/about-snaps/files.md) to learn about your Snap project files.

## Start the Snap

From the root of the newly created project, install the project dependencies using Yarn:

```shell
yarn install
```

You may get a warning like the following:

```bash
@lavamoat/allow-scripts has detected dependencies without configuration. explicit configuration required.
run "allow-scripts auto" to automatically populate the configuration.
```

You can fix this by running the following command:

```bash
yarn run allow-scripts auto
```

Start the development server:

```shell
yarn start
```

You are now serving the Snap at [`http://localhost:8080`](http://localhost:8080/) and its front-end dapp at [`http://localhost:8000`](http://localhost:8000/).

## Connect to the Snap

On the front-end dapp, select the **Connect** button and the MetaMask Flask extension pops up and
requires you to approve the Snap's permissions.

Once connected, select the **Send message** button to display a custom message within a confirmation
dialog in MetaMask Flask.

## Customize the Snap

Open the project in a text editor.
You can customize your Snap by editing `index.ts` in the `packages/snap/src` folder.

`index.ts` contains an example request that uses the
[`snap_dialog`](../reference/snaps-api.md#snapdialog) method to display a custom confirmation screen:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="JSX">

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import type { OnRpcRequestHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk";
import { Box, Text, Bold } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

/**
 * Handle incoming JSON-RPC requests, sent through wallet_invokeSnap.
 *
 * @param args - The request handler arguments as an object.
 * @param args.origin - The origin of the request, e.g., the website that invoked the Snap.
 * @param args.request - A validated JSON-RPC request object.
 * @returns The result of snap_dialog.
 * @throws If the request method is not valid for this Snap.
 */
export const onRpcRequest: OnRpcRequestHandler = async ({
  origin,
  request,
}) => {
  switch (request.method) {
    case "hello":
      return snap.request({
        method: "snap_dialog",
        params: {
          type: "confirmation",
          content: (
            <Box>
              <Text>Hello, <Bold>{origin}</Bold>!</Text>
              <Text>This custom confirmation is just for display purposes.</Text>
              <Text>But you can edit the Snap source code to make it do something, if you want to!</Text>
            </Box>
          ),
        },
      });
    default:
      throw new Error("Method not found.");
  }
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Functions" deprecated>

```ts title="index.ts"
import type { OnRpcRequestHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"
import { panel, text } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"

/**
 * Handle incoming JSON-RPC requests, sent through wallet_invokeSnap.
 *
 * @param args - The request handler arguments as an object.
 * @param args.origin - The origin of the request, e.g., the website that invoked the Snap.
 * @param args.request - A validated JSON-RPC request object.
 * @returns The result of snap_dialog.
 * @throws If the request method is not valid for this Snap.
 */
export const onRpcRequest: OnRpcRequestHandler = async ({
  origin,
  request,
}) => {
  switch (request.method) {
    case "hello":
      return snap.request({
        method: "snap_dialog",
        params: {
          type: "confirmation",
          content: panel([
            text(`Hello, **${origin}**!`),
            text("This custom confirmation is just for display purposes."),
            text(
              "But you can edit the Snap source code to make it do something, if you want to!"
            ),
          ]),
        },
      })
    default:
      throw new Error("Method not found.")
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Edit the text in any `text()` component and select the **Reconnect** button
on the front-end to re-install the Snap.

:::note
MetaMask Flask automatically re-installs locally hosted Snaps whenever it receives a connection request for them.
:::

The next time you select the **Send message** button, you see the updated text in the confirmation dialog.

You've now successfully connected, installed, interacted with, and customized your Snap!

## Next steps

- Fill out the [Snap Builders Onboarding Form](https://feedback.metamask.io/snaps-onboarding) to
  allow the MetaMask Snaps team to engage with you and provide support as you begin to develop your Snap.
- To learn more about the Snaps system, review [fundamental Snaps concepts](/snaps/learn/about-snaps)
  and try the [Snaps tutorials](/snaps/learn/tutorials).
- To implement specific features and use cases, see the [Snaps feature guides](/snaps/features).
- To follow best practices for developing a Snap, see the [Snaps how-to guides](/snaps/how-to).
