embedded-wallets/sdk/js/advanced/wallet-services.mdx, before:

---
title: Wallet Services
sidebar_label: Wallet UI & Services
description: '@web3auth/modal Wallet Services | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import AuthAdapterSettings from '../../_common/_auth-adapter-settings.mdx'
import AuthLoginSettings from '../../_common/_auth-login-settings.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'

Web3Auth Wallet Services provides a comprehensive suite of wallet functionality including Fiat on Ramp, Swaps, and Wallet UI Interoperability with WalletConnect. These services enhance your application by offering a complete wallet experience without building these features from scratch.

:::tip

All these configurations can be directly accessed and managed through the Web3Auth dashboard. Manual configuration in the SDK is optional and provided here for reference purposes.

:::

<GrowthPlanNote />

## `walletServicesConfig`

The `walletServicesConfig` option allows you to customize the wallet services experience for your users.

```tsx
walletServicesConfig?: WalletServicesConfig;
```

### Configuration Options

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Table">

| Property               | Type                       | Description                                     |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `confirmationStrategy` | CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY_TYPE | How to display confirmation screens             |
| `modalZIndex`          | number                     | Z-index for modal windows                       |
| `enableKeyExport`      | boolean                    | Enable private key export functionality         |
| `whiteLabel`           | Object                     | Customization options for the widget appearance |

#### Confirmation Strategy Options

| Strategy       | Description                                                    |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `default`      | Uses auto-approve by default, modal for WalletConnect requests |
| `modal`        | Always uses modal for confirmations                            |
| `auto-approve` | Automatically approves transactions without confirmation       |

#### WhiteLabel Options

| Property            | Type                 | Description                               |
| ------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `showWidgetButton`  | boolean              | Whether to show the widget button         |
| `buttonPosition`    | BUTTON_POSITION_TYPE | Position of the widget button on the page |
| `hideNftDisplay`    | boolean              | Hide NFT display in the wallet            |
| `hideTokenDisplay`  | boolean              | Hide token display in the wallet          |
| `hideTransfers`     | boolean              | Hide transfer functionality               |
| `hideTopup`         | boolean              | Hide top-up (fiat on-ramp) functionality  |
| `hideReceive`       | boolean              | Hide receive address functionality        |
| `hideSwap`          | boolean              | Hide token swap functionality             |
| `hideShowAllTokens` | boolean              | Hide the "show all tokens" option         |
| `hideWalletConnect` | boolean              | Hide WalletConnect integration            |
| `defaultPortfolio`  | "token" \| "nft"     | Default portfolio view                    |

#### Button Position Options

| Position       | Description                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `bottom-left`  | Bottom left corner of the page  |
| `top-left`     | Top left corner of the page     |
| `bottom-right` | Bottom right corner of the page |
| `top-right`    | Top right corner of the page    |

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="Interface">

```tsx
export type WalletServicesConfig = Omit<
  WsEmbedParams,
  | 'buildEnv'
  | 'enableLogging'
  | 'chainId'
  | 'chains'
  | 'confirmationStrategy'
  | 'accountAbstractionConfig'
> & {
  /**
   * Determines how to show confirmation screens
   * @defaultValue default
   *
   * default & auto-approve
   * - use auto-approve as default
   * - if wallet connect request use modal
   *
   * modal
   * - use modal always
   */
  confirmationStrategy?: Exclude<WsEmbedParams['confirmationStrategy'], 'popup'>
  modalZIndex?: number
}

export interface WsEmbedParams {
  /**
   * Supported chains
   */
  chains: ProviderConfig[]
  /**
   * Chain to connect with
   */
  chainId: string
  /**
   * Build Environment of WsEmbed.
   *
   * production uses https://wallet.web3auth.io,
   *
   * staging uses https://staging-wallet.web3auth.io,
   *
   * testing uses https://develop-wallet.web3auth.io (latest internal build)
   *
   * development uses http://localhost:4050 (expects wallet-services-frontend to be run locally),
   *
   * @defaultValue production
   */
  buildEnv?: WS_EMBED_BUILD_ENV_TYPE
  /**
   * Enables or disables logging.
   *
   * Defaults to false in prod and true in other environments
   */
  enableLogging?: boolean
  /**
   * url of widget to load
   *
   * Defaults to true
   * @defaultValue true
   */
  walletUrls?: Partial<Record<WS_EMBED_BUILD_ENV_TYPE, WalletUrlConfig>>
  /**
   * Determines how to show confirmation screens
   * @defaultValue default
   *
   * default & popup
   * - use popop as default
   * - if wallet connect request use modal
   *
   * modal
   * - use modal always
   *
   * auto-approve
   * - does not work on embed. will use default
   */
  confirmationStrategy?: CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY_TYPE
  /**
   * Enable and configure account abstraction
   */
  accountAbstractionConfig?: AccountAbstractionMultiChainConfig
  /**
   * Enable private key export
   *
   * Defaults to false
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  enableKeyExport?: boolean
  /**
   * Allows you to customize the look & feel of the widget
   */
  whiteLabel?: {
    /**
     * whether to show/hide ws-embed widget.
     *
     * Defaults to true
     * @defaultValue true
     */
    showWidgetButton?: boolean
    /**
     * Determines where the wsEmbed widget is visible on the page.
     * @defaultValue bottom-left
     */
    buttonPosition?: BUTTON_POSITION_TYPE
    hideNftDisplay?: boolean
    hideTokenDisplay?: boolean
    hideTransfers?: boolean
    hideTopup?: boolean
    hideReceive?: boolean
    hideSwap?: boolean
    hideShowAllTokens?: boolean
    hideWalletConnect?: boolean
    defaultPortfolio?: 'token' | 'nft'
  } & WhiteLabelData
}

export declare const CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY: {
  readonly POPUP: 'popup'
  readonly MODAL: 'modal'
  readonly AUTO_APPROVE: 'auto-approve'
  readonly DEFAULT: 'default'
}
export type CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY_TYPE =
  (typeof CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY)[keyof typeof CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY]

export type AccountAbstractionMultiChainConfig = {
  smartAccountType?: SmartAccountType
  chains?: {
    chainId: string
    bundlerConfig: BundlerConfig
    paymasterConfig?: PaymasterConfig
    smartAccountConfig?: SmartAccountConfig
  }[]
}

export declare const BUTTON_POSITION: {
  readonly BOTTOM_LEFT: 'bottom-left'
  readonly TOP_LEFT: 'top-left'
  readonly BOTTOM_RIGHT: 'bottom-right'
  readonly TOP_RIGHT: 'top-right'
}
export type BUTTON_POSITION_TYPE = (typeof BUTTON_POSITION)[keyof typeof BUTTON_POSITION]
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Usage

```ts
import { Web3Auth, BUTTON_POSITION, CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // focus-start
  walletServicesConfig: {
    confirmationStrategy: CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY.MODAL,
    modalZIndex: 99999,
    enableKeyExport: false,
    whiteLabel: {
      showWidgetButton: true,
      buttonPosition: BUTTON_POSITION.BOTTOM_RIGHT,
      hideNftDisplay: false,
      hideTokenDisplay: false,
      hideTransfers: false,
      hideTopup: false,
      hideReceive: false,
      hideSwap: false,
      hideShowAllTokens: false,
      hideWalletConnect: false,
      defaultPortfolio: 'token',
    },
  },
  // focus-end
})

// Initialize web3auth
await web3auth.init()
```

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/js/advanced/wallet-services.mdx, after:

---
title: Wallet Services
sidebar_label: Wallet UI & Services
description: '@web3auth/modal Wallet Services | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import AuthAdapterSettings from '../../_common/_auth-adapter-settings.mdx'
import AuthLoginSettings from '../../_common/_auth-login-settings.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'

Embedded Wallets' Wallet Services provides a comprehensive suite of wallet functionality including fiat-on-ramp, swaps, and wallet UI Interoperability with WalletConnect. These services enhance your application by offering a complete wallet experience without building these features from scratch.

:::tip

All these configurations can be directly accessed and managed through the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io). Manual configuration in the SDK is optional and provided here for reference purposes.

:::

<GrowthPlanNote />

## `walletServicesConfig`

The `walletServicesConfig` option allows you to customize the Wallet Services experience for your users.

```tsx
walletServicesConfig?: WalletServicesConfig;
```

### Configuration options

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Table">

| Property               | Type                       | Description                                     |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `confirmationStrategy` | CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY_TYPE | How to display confirmation screens.            |
| `modalZIndex`          | number                     | Z-index for modal windows.                      |
| `enableKeyExport`      | boolean                    | Enable private key export functionality.        |
| `whiteLabel`           | Object                     | Customization options for the widget appearance.|

#### Confirmation strategy options

| Strategy       | Description                                                    |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `default`      | Uses auto-approve by default, modal for WalletConnect requests.|
| `modal`        | Always uses modal for confirmations.                           |
| `auto-approve` | Automatically approves transactions without confirmation.      |

#### Whitelabel options

| Property            | Type                 | Description                               |
| ------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `showWidgetButton`  | boolean              | Whether to show the widget button.        |
| `buttonPosition`    | BUTTON_POSITION_TYPE | Position of the widget button on the page.|
| `hideNftDisplay`    | boolean              | Hide NFT display in the wallet.           |
| `hideTokenDisplay`  | boolean              | Hide token display in the wallet.         |
| `hideTransfers`     | boolean              | Hide transfer functionality.              |
| `hideTopup`         | boolean              | Hide top-up (fiat on-ramp) functionality. |
| `hideReceive`       | boolean              | Hide receive address functionality.       |
| `hideSwap`          | boolean              | Hide token swap functionality.            |
| `hideShowAllTokens` | boolean              | Hide the "show all tokens" option.        |
| `hideWalletConnect` | boolean              | Hide WalletConnect integration.           |
| `defaultPortfolio`  | "token" \| "nft"     | Default portfolio view.                   |

#### Button position options

| Position       | Description                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `bottom-left`  | Bottom left corner of the page. |
| `top-left`     | Top left corner of the page.    |
| `bottom-right` | Bottom right corner of the page.|
| `top-right`    | Top right corner of the page.   |

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="Interface">

```tsx
export type WalletServicesConfig = Omit<
  WsEmbedParams,
  | 'buildEnv'
  | 'enableLogging'
  | 'chainId'
  | 'chains'
  | 'confirmationStrategy'
  | 'accountAbstractionConfig'
> & {
  /**
   * Determines how to show confirmation screens
   * @defaultValue default
   *
   * default & auto-approve
   * - use auto-approve as default
   * - if wallet connect request use modal
   *
   * modal
   * - use modal always
   */
  confirmationStrategy?: Exclude<WsEmbedParams['confirmationStrategy'], 'popup'>
  modalZIndex?: number
}

export interface WsEmbedParams {
  /**
   * Supported chains
   */
  chains: ProviderConfig[]
  /**
   * Chain to connect with
   */
  chainId: string
  /**
   * Build Environment of WsEmbed.
   *
   * production uses https://wallet.web3auth.io,
   *
   * staging uses https://staging-wallet.web3auth.io,
   *
   * testing uses https://develop-wallet.web3auth.io (latest internal build)
   *
   * development uses http://localhost:4050 (expects wallet-services-frontend to be run locally),
   *
   * @defaultValue production
   */
  buildEnv?: WS_EMBED_BUILD_ENV_TYPE
  /**
   * Enables or disables logging.
   *
   * Defaults to false in prod and true in other environments
   */
  enableLogging?: boolean
  /**
   * url of widget to load
   *
   * Defaults to true
   * @defaultValue true
   */
  walletUrls?: Partial<Record<WS_EMBED_BUILD_ENV_TYPE, WalletUrlConfig>>
  /**
   * Determines how to show confirmation screens
   * @defaultValue default
   *
   * default & popup
   * - use popop as default
   * - if wallet connect request use modal
   *
   * modal
   * - use modal always
   *
   * auto-approve
   * - does not work on embed. will use default
   */
  confirmationStrategy?: CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY_TYPE
  /**
   * Enable and configure account abstraction
   */
  accountAbstractionConfig?: AccountAbstractionMultiChainConfig
  /**
   * Enable private key export
   *
   * Defaults to false
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  enableKeyExport?: boolean
  /**
   * Allows you to customize the look & feel of the widget
   */
  whiteLabel?: {
    /**
     * whether to show/hide ws-embed widget.
     *
     * Defaults to true
     * @defaultValue true
     */
    showWidgetButton?: boolean
    /**
     * Determines where the wsEmbed widget is visible on the page.
     * @defaultValue bottom-left
     */
    buttonPosition?: BUTTON_POSITION_TYPE
    hideNftDisplay?: boolean
    hideTokenDisplay?: boolean
    hideTransfers?: boolean
    hideTopup?: boolean
    hideReceive?: boolean
    hideSwap?: boolean
    hideShowAllTokens?: boolean
    hideWalletConnect?: boolean
    defaultPortfolio?: 'token' | 'nft'
  } & WhiteLabelData
}

export declare const CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY: {
  readonly POPUP: 'popup'
  readonly MODAL: 'modal'
  readonly AUTO_APPROVE: 'auto-approve'
  readonly DEFAULT: 'default'
}
export type CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY_TYPE =
  (typeof CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY)[keyof typeof CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY]

export type AccountAbstractionMultiChainConfig = {
  smartAccountType?: SmartAccountType
  chains?: {
    chainId: string
    bundlerConfig: BundlerConfig
    paymasterConfig?: PaymasterConfig
    smartAccountConfig?: SmartAccountConfig
  }[]
}

export declare const BUTTON_POSITION: {
  readonly BOTTOM_LEFT: 'bottom-left'
  readonly TOP_LEFT: 'top-left'
  readonly BOTTOM_RIGHT: 'bottom-right'
  readonly TOP_RIGHT: 'top-right'
}
export type BUTTON_POSITION_TYPE = (typeof BUTTON_POSITION)[keyof typeof BUTTON_POSITION]
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Usage

```ts
import { Web3Auth, BUTTON_POSITION, CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // focus-start
  walletServicesConfig: {
    confirmationStrategy: CONFIRMATION_STRATEGY.MODAL,
    modalZIndex: 99999,
    enableKeyExport: false,
    whiteLabel: {
      showWidgetButton: true,
      buttonPosition: BUTTON_POSITION.BOTTOM_RIGHT,
      hideNftDisplay: false,
      hideTokenDisplay: false,
      hideTransfers: false,
      hideTopup: false,
      hideReceive: false,
      hideSwap: false,
      hideShowAllTokens: false,
      hideWalletConnect: false,
      defaultPortfolio: 'token',
    },
  },
  // focus-end
})

// Initialize web3auth
await web3auth.init()
```
