embedded-wallets/sdk/react/migration-guides/modal-v9-to-v10-react.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrating React Applications from v9 to v10
description: Comprehensive guide for migrating Web3Auth React applications from v9 to v10 with hooks.
sidebar_label: v9 to v10
---

This guide focuses specifically on migrating React applications from Web3Auth v9 to v10. This is a supplementary guide to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](../../js/migration-guides/modal/v9-to-v10/README.mdx).

For general migration points (chain configuration, MFA, method renames, etc.), please refer to the main migration guide.

## Migrating a React Application

This section focuses on changes specific to migrating a Web3Auth v9 React application to v10 using `@web3auth/modal/react`.

### React Hooks Path and WalletServicesPlugin Updates

Previously, React hooks were at `@web3auth/modal-react-hooks`. Now, they are consolidated and imported from `@web3auth/modal/react`. Even WalletServicesPlugin is now integrated into the hooks. Previously, it was a separate package named `@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin-react-hooks`.

The `Web3AuthProvider` component remains essential for initializing the Web3Auth SDK and providing its context. Key changes include:

- **Import Path**: `Web3AuthProvider` is imported from `@web3auth/modal/react`.
- **Configuration Prop**: `Web3AuthProvider` in v10 typically takes a single `config` prop. This `config` object (e.g., `web3AuthContextConfig`) will contain your `web3AuthOptions` and any client-side SDK configurations.
- **Dashboard Configuration**: Many configurations (like chain details for standard EVM chains, and verifier/connection settings) are now primarily managed through the Web3Auth Developer Dashboard.

### v10 `Web3AuthProvider` and Hook Usage

`Web3AuthProvider` is configured with a `config` object, and all hooks are streamlined under `@web3auth/modal/react`.

```typescript title="main.tsx / index.tsx"
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { Web3AuthProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react"; // v10 import
import web3AuthContextConfig from "./web3authContext"; // see context file below
import App from "./App";

// Example with Wagmi, though not strictly necessary for Web3AuthProvider
import { WagmiProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react/wagmi";
import { QueryClient, QueryClientProvider } from "@tanstack/react-query";
const queryClient = new QueryClient();


ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
  <Web3AuthProvider config={web3AuthContextConfig}>
    <QueryClientProvider client={queryClient}>
      <WagmiProvider>
        <App />
      </WagmiProvider>
    </QueryClientProvider>
  </Web3AuthProvider>
);
```

```typescript title="web3authContext.ts"
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, Web3AuthOptions } from '@web3auth/modal' // v10 modal options
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react' // v10 context config type

const clientId = 'YOUR_V10_CLIENT_ID' // Get from https://dashboard.web3auth.io

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions: {
    clientId,
    web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  },
}

export default web3AuthContextConfig
```

All hooks are now streamlined under `@web3auth/modal/react`:

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import {
  useWeb3Auth,
  useWeb3AuthConnect,
  useWeb3AuthDisconnect,
  useIdentityToken,
  useWeb3AuthUser,
  useSwitchChain,
  useEnableMFA,
  useManageMFA,
  useWalletConnectScanner, // Wallet Services
  useWalletUI, // Wallet Services
  useCheckout, // Wallet Services
  useSwap, // Wallet Services
  useWalletServicesPlugin, // Wallet Services
} from '@web3auth/modal/react'
```

### React Hook Structure

The new hook structure is more granular:

- **Core Web3Auth:**
  - `useWeb3Auth`: Core hook for initialization status and overall SDK state.
- **Authentication:**
  - `useWeb3AuthConnect`: Handles connection.
  - `useWeb3AuthDisconnect`: Manages disconnection.
- **Identity:**
  - `useIdentityToken`: Retrieves identity tokens.
  - `useWeb3AuthUser`: Accesses authenticated user's information.
- **Blockchain:**
  - `useSwitchChain`: Allows switching networks.
- **MFA:**
  - `useEnableMFA`: Enables MFA.
  - `useManageMFA`: Manages MFA settings.
- **Wallet Services Plugin (now integrated):**
  - `useWalletServicesPlugin`: Hook to access the Wallet Services Plugin context.
    - `isPluginConnected`: `boolean`
    - `showWalletConnectScanner(params?)`: `Promise<void>`
    - `showCheckout(params?)`: `Promise<void>`
    - `showWalletUI(params?)`: `Promise<void>`
    - `showSwap(params?)`: `Promise<void>`

Refer to the [React Modal SDK Hooks documentation](/embedded-wallets/sdk/react/hooks) for the detailed SDK reference.

## Package Removal

When migrating React applications, ensure you remove these deprecated packages:

- `@web3auth/modal-react-hooks`
- `@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin-react-hooks`

## Next Steps

Return to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](../../js/migration-guides/modal/v9-to-v10/README.mdx) to continue with other migration aspects like MFA configurations, method renames, and chain configuration changes.

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/react/migration-guides/modal-v9-to-v10-react.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrating React Applications from v9 to v10
description: Comprehensive guide for migrating Web3Auth React applications from v9 to v10 with hooks.
sidebar_label: v9 to v10
---

This guide focuses specifically on migrating React applications from Embedded Wallets/Web3Auth v9 to v10. This is a supplementary guide to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](../../js/migration-guides/modal/v9-to-v10/README.mdx).

For general migration points (such as chain configuration, MFA, method renames), please refer to the main migration guide.

## Migrating a React application

This section focuses on changes specific to migrating a Web3Auth v9 React application to v10 using `@web3auth/modal/react`.

### React hooks path and WalletServicesPlugin updates

Previously, React hooks were at `@web3auth/modal-react-hooks`. Now, they are consolidated and imported from `@web3auth/modal/react`. Even WalletServicesPlugin is now integrated into the hooks. Previously, it was a separate package named `@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin-react-hooks`.

The `Web3AuthProvider` component remains essential for initializing the Web3Auth SDK and providing its context. Key changes include:

- **Import path:** `Web3AuthProvider` is imported from `@web3auth/modal/react`.
- **Configuration Prop:** `Web3AuthProvider` in v10 typically takes a single `config` prop. This `config` object (for example, `web3AuthContextConfig`) will contain your `web3AuthOptions` and any client-side SDK configurations.
- **Dashboard configuration:** Many configurations (like chain details for standard EVM chains, and verifier/connection settings) are now primarily managed through the Web3Auth Developer Dashboard (now the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/)).

### v10 `Web3AuthProvider` and hook usage

`Web3AuthProvider` is configured with a `config` object, and all hooks are streamlined under `@web3auth/modal/react`.

```typescript title="main.tsx / index.tsx"
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { Web3AuthProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react"; // v10 import
import web3AuthContextConfig from "./web3authContext"; // see context file below
import App from "./App";

// Example with Wagmi, though not strictly necessary for Web3AuthProvider
import { WagmiProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react/wagmi";
import { QueryClient, QueryClientProvider } from "@tanstack/react-query";
const queryClient = new QueryClient();


ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
  <Web3AuthProvider config={web3AuthContextConfig}>
    <QueryClientProvider client={queryClient}>
      <WagmiProvider>
        <App />
      </WagmiProvider>
    </QueryClientProvider>
  </Web3AuthProvider>
);
```

```typescript title="web3authContext.ts"
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, Web3AuthOptions } from '@web3auth/modal' // v10 modal options
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react' // v10 context config type

const clientId = 'YOUR_V10_CLIENT_ID' // Get from https://dashboard.web3auth.io

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions: {
    clientId,
    web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  },
}

export default web3AuthContextConfig
```

All hooks are now streamlined under `@web3auth/modal/react`:

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import {
  useWeb3Auth,
  useWeb3AuthConnect,
  useWeb3AuthDisconnect,
  useIdentityToken,
  useWeb3AuthUser,
  useSwitchChain,
  useEnableMFA,
  useManageMFA,
  useWalletConnectScanner, // Wallet Services
  useWalletUI, // Wallet Services
  useCheckout, // Wallet Services
  useSwap, // Wallet Services
  useWalletServicesPlugin, // Wallet Services
} from '@web3auth/modal/react'
```

### React hook structure

The new hook structure is more granular:

- **Core Web3Auth:**
  - `useWeb3Auth`: Core hook for initialization status and overall SDK state.
- **Authentication:**
  - `useWeb3AuthConnect`: Handles connection.
  - `useWeb3AuthDisconnect`: Manages Disconnection.
- **Identity:**
  - `useIdentityToken`: Retrieves identity tokens.
  - `useWeb3AuthUser`: Accesses authenticated user's information.
- **Blockchain:**
  - `useSwitchChain`: Allows switching networks.
- **MFA:**
  - `useEnableMFA`: Enables MFA.
  - `useManageMFA`: Manages MFA settings.
- **Wallet Services plugin (now integrated):**
  - `useWalletServicesPlugin`: Hook to access the Wallet Services plugin context.
    - `isPluginConnected`: `boolean`
    - `showWalletConnectScanner(params?)`: `Promise<void>`
    - `showCheckout(params?)`: `Promise<void>`
    - `showWalletUI(params?)`: `Promise<void>`
    - `showSwap(params?)`: `Promise<void>`

Refer to the [React Modal SDK hooks documentation](/embedded-wallets/sdk/react/hooks) for the detailed SDK reference.

## Package removal

When migrating React applications, ensure you remove these deprecated packages:

- `@web3auth/modal-react-hooks`
- `@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin-react-hooks`

## Next steps

Return to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](../../js/migration-guides/modal/v9-to-v10/README.mdx) to continue with other migration aspects like MFA configurations, method renames, and chain configuration changes.
