wallet/index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

# Integrate your dapp with the MetaMask wallet

Integrate your dapp with MetaMask using **MetaMask SDK** and the **Wallet API**.
Use MetaMask SDK to create a seamless connection between your dapp and MetaMask across desktop and
mobile platforms.
Use the Wallet API to interact with users' EVM accounts in MetaMask.

Get started by [connecting to MetaMask](connect/index.md).

## Why use MetaMask SDK?

**MetaMask SDK** enables a reliable, secure, and seamless connection between your dapp and the
MetaMask browser extension or MetaMask Mobile, providing cross-platform compatibility with a
consistent user experience.
Key benefits include:

- **Multi-platform support** – Connect from web, desktop, mobile, and gaming platforms.
- **Seamless connections** – Minimize reconnections and improve user experience, especially on mobile.
- **Mobile-first optimization** – Enable faster wallet interactions with instant deeplinks and advanced features.
- **Enhanced functionality** – Use [RPC request batching](how-to/batch-json-rpc-requests.md),
  [EIP-6963](/wallet/concepts/wallet-interoperability.md) for wallet discovery, and wallet security enhancements.

The **Wallet API** allows you to interact with users' EVM accounts using standardized JSON-RPC calls.
While you can connect to the MetaMask extension directly using just the Wallet API, we recommend
using the SDK with the Wallet API to take advantage of the SDK's benefits.

## Where do I start?

See [**Connect to MetaMask**](connect/index.md) to learn about the different connection options,
and get started quickly.

## Questions?

For more support, connect with the MetaMask team and community on [Consensys Discord](https://discord.gg/consensys).

:::note MetaMask user support
For MetaMask user support, visit the [MetaMask Help Center](https://support.metamask.io/).
:::

Commit message:

Recommend 3rd-party libraries (#1639)
* Recommend 3rd-party libraries

* add space

---------

Co-authored-by: Joan E <153745173+joaniefromtheblock@users.noreply.github.com>

wallet/index.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

# Integrate your dapp with the MetaMask wallet

Integrate your dapp with MetaMask using **MetaMask SDK** and the **Wallet API**.
Use MetaMask SDK to create a seamless connection between your dapp and MetaMask across desktop and
mobile platforms.
Use the Wallet API to interact with users' EVM accounts in MetaMask.

Get started by [connecting to MetaMask](connect/index.md).

## Why use MetaMask SDK?

**MetaMask SDK** enables a reliable, secure, and seamless connection between your dapp and the
MetaMask browser extension or MetaMask Mobile, providing cross-platform compatibility with a
consistent user experience.
Key benefits include:

- **Multi-platform support** – Connect from web, desktop, mobile, and gaming platforms.
- **Seamless connections** – Minimize reconnections and improve user experience, especially on mobile.
- **Mobile-first optimization** – Enable faster wallet interactions with instant deeplinks and advanced features.
- **Enhanced functionality** – Use [RPC request batching](how-to/batch-json-rpc-requests.md),
  [EIP-6963](/wallet/concepts/wallet-interoperability.md) for wallet discovery, and wallet security enhancements.
- **Third-party library integration** - Use libraries like [Wagmi](connect/3rd-party-libraries/wagmi.md)
  or [Web3-Onboard](connect/3rd-party-libraries/web3-onboard.md) that integrate SDK support.

The **Wallet API** allows you to interact with users' EVM accounts using standardized JSON-RPC calls.
While you can connect to the MetaMask extension directly using just the Wallet API, we recommend
using the SDK or third-party libraries in conjunction with the Wallet API, to take advantage of the
SDK's benefits.

## Where do I start?

See [**Connect to MetaMask**](connect/index.md) to learn about the different connection options,
and get started quickly.

## Questions?

For more support, connect with the MetaMask team and community on [Consensys Discord](https://discord.gg/consensys).

:::note MetaMask user support
For MetaMask user support, visit the [MetaMask Help Center](https://support.metamask.io/).
:::
