wallet/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

import CardList from "@site/src/components/CardList"

# Interact with MetaMask Wallet directly through our Wallet API

Integrate your dapp with [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) using the [Wallet API](reference/json-rpc-api).
You can interact with your users' Ethereum accounts, performing tasks such as the following:

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "connect",
      title: "↔️ Connect to MetaMask",
      description:
        "Connect to MetaMask and other wallets in your users' browsers.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/sign-data",
      title: "🖊️ Sign data",
      description:
        "Request signatures from users, and allow them to sign in with Ethereum.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/make-read-only-requests",
      title: "📄 Make read-only requests",
      description:
        "Bypass user wallet authentication to make read-only JSON-RPC requests.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/display",
      title: "📱 Display in MetaMask",
      description:
        "Display tokens, contract methods, icons, and custom modals in MetaMask.",
    },
  ]}
/>

# Connect to MetaMask Extension or Mobile using the MetaMask SDK

Integrate your dapp with [MetaMask SDK](https://metamask.io/) to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile seamlessly through third party libraries like Web3Onboard or directly using Wagmi or with basic JS/TS.

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "↔️ Use MetaMask SDK",
      description:
        "MetaMask SDK provides a reliable, secure, and seamless connection from your dapp to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "🖊️ Use MetaMask SDK with JavaScript",
      description:
        "Import MetaMask SDK into your dapp to enable users to connect to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "📄 Use MetaMask SDK with React",
      description:
        "Import MetaMask SDK into your React dapp to enable users to connect to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "📱 Use MetaMask SDK with mobile dapps",
      description:
        "Import MetaMask SDK into your mobile dapp to enable users to connect with MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
  ]}
/>

## New to developing on MetaMask?

If you're new to integrating dapps with MetaMask, check out the following topics:

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "concepts/architecture",
      title: "📐 Architecture",
      description: "Learn about the high-level MetaMask architecture.",
    },
    {
      href: "concepts/wallet-api",
      title: "🌐 About the Wallet API",
      description: "Learn about MetaMask's Wallet API and its components.",
    },
    {
      href: "tutorials/react-dapp-local-state",
      title: "🛠️ Create a React dapp tutorial",
      description:
        "Follow the tutorial to create a React dapp and integrate it with MetaMask.",
    },
    {
      href: "tutorials/javascript-dapp-simple",
      title: "🛠️ Create a simple dapp tutorial",
      description:
        "Follow the tutorial to create a simple dapp and integrate it with MetaMask.",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Questions?

If you have questions about integrating your dapp with MetaMask, you can interact with the MetaMask
team and community on the MetaMask channels on [Consensys Discord](https://discord.gg/consensys).

:::info MetaMask user support
If you need MetaMask user support, visit the [MetaMask Help Center](https://support.metamask.io/).
:::

Commit message:

add quick start and react tutorials

wallet/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

import CardList from "@site/src/components/CardList"

# Interact with MetaMask Wallet directly through our Wallet API

Integrate your dapp with [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) using the [Wallet API](reference/json-rpc-api).
You can interact with your users' Ethereum accounts, performing tasks such as the following:

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "connect",
      title: "↔️ Connect to MetaMask",
      description:
        "Connect to MetaMask and other wallets in your users' browsers.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/sign-data",
      title: "🖊️ Sign data",
      description:
        "Request signatures from users, and allow them to sign in with Ethereum.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/make-read-only-requests",
      title: "📄 Make read-only requests",
      description:
        "Bypass user wallet authentication to make read-only JSON-RPC requests.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/display",
      title: "📱 Display in MetaMask",
      description:
        "Display tokens, contract methods, icons, and custom modals in MetaMask.",
    },
  ]}
/>

### Want to get started quickly?

Check out the [Ethereum Quick Start Guide](../services/reference/ethereum/quickstart.md) for a step-by-step guide on integrating MetaMask into your dapp in just a few minutes. Or you can check out our React tutorials on [Create a React dapp with Local State](/tutorials/react-dapp-local-state.md) or [Create a React Dapp with Global State](/tutorials/react-dapp-global-state.md)

# Connect to MetaMask Extension or Mobile using the MetaMask SDK

Integrate your dapp with [MetaMask SDK](https://metamask.io/) to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile seamlessly through third party libraries like Web3Onboard or directly using Wagmi or with basic JS/TS.

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "↔️ Use MetaMask SDK",
      description:
        "MetaMask SDK provides a reliable, secure, and seamless connection from your dapp to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "🖊️ Use MetaMask SDK with JavaScript",
      description:
        "Import MetaMask SDK into your dapp to enable users to connect to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "📄 Use MetaMask SDK with React",
      description:
        "Import MetaMask SDK into your React dapp to enable users to connect to MetaMask Extension and MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
    {
      href: "how-to/use-sdk",
      title: "📱 Use MetaMask SDK with mobile dapps",
      description:
        "Import MetaMask SDK into your mobile dapp to enable users to connect with MetaMask Mobile.",
    },
  ]}
/>

## New to developing on MetaMask?

If you're new to integrating dapps with MetaMask, check out the following topics:

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "concepts/architecture",
      title: "📐 Architecture",
      description: "Learn about the high-level MetaMask architecture.",
    },
    {
      href: "concepts/wallet-api",
      title: "🌐 About the Wallet API",
      description: "Learn about MetaMask's Wallet API and its components.",
    },
    {
      href: "tutorials/react-dapp-local-state",
      title: "🛠️ Create a React dapp tutorial",
      description:
        "Follow the tutorial to create a React dapp and integrate it with MetaMask.",
    },
    {
      href: "tutorials/javascript-dapp-simple",
      title: "🛠️ Create a simple dapp tutorial",
      description:
        "Follow the tutorial to create a simple dapp and integrate it with MetaMask.",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Questions?

If you have questions about integrating your dapp with MetaMask, you can interact with the MetaMask
team and community on the MetaMask channels on [Consensys Discord](https://discord.gg/consensys).

:::info MetaMask user support
If you need MetaMask user support, visit the [MetaMask Help Center](https://support.metamask.io/).
:::
