embedded-wallets/sdk/js/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started with the Web SDK
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'Embedded Wallets Web SDK (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play)'
---

import ExampleCards from '@theme/ExampleCards'
import { webExamples, QUICK_START } from '@site/src/utils/example-maps'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import SdkTroubleshootingIntro from '../_common/_sdk-troubleshooting-intro.mdx'

> Embedded Wallets SDKs were previously marketed as Web3Auth Plug and Play SDKs. Package names and APIs remain Web3Auth (for example, `@web3auth/modal`).

## Overview

Embedded Wallets provide a seamless authentication experience for web applications with social logins, external wallets, and more. Using our JavaScript SDK, you can easily connect users to their preferred wallets and manage authentication state.

## Requirements

- This is a frontend SDK and must be used in a browser environment.
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript.

## Installation

Install the Web3Auth Modal SDK using npm or yarn:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save @web3auth/modal
```

## Setup

:::info

Prerequisites Before you start, make sure you have registered on the [**Web3Auth Dashboard**](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/) and have set up your project. You can look into the [Dashboard Setup](../../dashboard/README.mdx) guide to learn more.

:::

### 1. Configuration

Create an instance of Web3Auth containing the basic needed configuration. These configuration will contain your Web3Auth Client ID and Network details from the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/).

```javascript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
})
```

### 2. Initialize Web3Auth

Initialize the Web3Auth instance before using any authentication methods:

```javascript
await web3auth.init()
```

## Advanced Configuration

The Web3Auth Modal SDK offers a rich set of advanced configuration options:

- **[Smart Accounts](./advanced/smart-accounts.mdx)**: Configure account abstraction parameters.
- **[Custom Authentication](./advanced/custom-authentication.mdx)**: Define authentication methods.
- **[Whitelabeling & UI Customization](./advanced/whitelabel.mdx)**: Personalize the modal's appearance.
- **[Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)](./advanced/mfa.mdx)**: Set up and manage MFA.
- **[Wallet Services](./advanced/wallet-services.mdx)**: Integrate additional wallet services.

:::tip

Head over to the [**Advanced Configuration**](./advanced/README.mdx) section to learn more about each configuration option.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic-config"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Configuration", value: "basic-config" },
    { label: "Advanced Configuration", value: "advanced-config" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic-config">

```javascript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
})
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced-config">

```javascript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, WALLET_CONNECTORS, MFA_LEVELS } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  modalConfig: {
    connectors: {
      [WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH]: {
        label: 'auth',
        loginMethods: {
          google: {
            name: 'google login',
            // logoDark: "url to your custom logo which will shown in dark mode",
          },
          facebook: {
            name: 'facebook login',
            showOnModal: false, // hides the facebook option
          },
          email_passwordless: {
            name: 'email passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-email_passwordless-demo',
          },
          sms_passwordless: {
            name: 'sms passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-sms_passwordless-demo',
          },
        },
        showOnModal: true, // set to false to hide all social login methods
      },
    },
    hideWalletDiscovery: true, // set to true to hide external wallets discovery
  },
  mfaLevel: MFA_LEVELS.MANDATORY,
})
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Blockchain Integration

Web3Auth is blockchain agnostic, enabling integration with any blockchain network. Out of the box, Web3Auth offers robust support for both **Solana** and **Ethereum**, each with dedicated provider methods.

### Solana Integration

To interact with Solana networks, you can get the provider from Web3Auth and use it with Solana libraries:

```javascript
await web3auth.connect()
// Use with a Solana library
const solanaWallet = new SolanaWallet(web3auth.provider)
```

### Ethereum Integration

For Ethereum integration, you can get the provider and use it with ethers or viem:

```javascript
await web3auth.connect()
// Use with ethers.js
const ethProvider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(web3auth.provider)
// OR
// Use with viem
const walletClient = createWalletClient({
  chain: getViewChain(web3auth.provider),
  transport: custom(web3auth.provider),
})
```

<SdkTroubleshootingIntro />

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/js/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started with the Web SDK
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'Embedded Wallets Web SDK (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play)'
---

import ExampleCards from '@theme/ExampleCards'
import { webExamples, QUICK_START } from '@site/src/utils/example-maps'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import SdkTroubleshootingIntro from '../_common/_sdk-troubleshooting-intro.mdx'

:::note[Naming]

Embedded Wallets SDKs were previously known as Web3Auth Plug and Play SDKs. Package names and APIs remain Web3Auth (for example, `@web3auth/modal`).

:::

## Overview

Embedded Wallets provide a seamless authentication experience for web applications with social logins, external wallets, and more. Our JavaScript SDK simplifies how you connect users to their preferred wallets and manage authentication state.

## Requirements

- This is a frontend SDK and must be used in a browser environment.
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript.

## Prerequisites

- Set up your project on the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/)

:::tip

See the [dashboard setup](../../dashboard/README.mdx) guide to learn more.

:::

## Installation

Install the Web3Auth Modal SDK using npm or yarn:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save @web3auth/modal
```

### 1. Configuration

Create an instance of Embedded Wallets containing the basic required configuration. This configuration will contain your Embedded Wallets Client ID and network details from the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/).

```javascript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
})
```

### 2. Initialize Embedded Wallets

Initialize the Web3Auth instance before using any authentication methods:

```javascript
await web3auth.init()
```

## Advanced configuration

The Web3Auth Modal SDK offers a rich set of advanced configuration options:

- **[Smart accounts](./advanced/smart-accounts.mdx):** Configure account abstraction parameters.
- **[Custom authentication](./advanced/custom-authentication.mdx):** Define authentication methods.
- **[Whitelabeling and UI customization](./advanced/whitelabel.mdx):** Personalize the modal's appearance.
- **[Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)](./advanced/mfa.mdx):** Set up and manage MFA.
- **[Wallet Services](./advanced/wallet-services.mdx):** Integrate additional Wallet Services.

:::tip

See the [advanced configuration](./advanced/README.mdx) section to learn more about each configuration option.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic-config"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Configuration", value: "basic-config" },
    { label: "Advanced Configuration", value: "advanced-config" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic-config">

```javascript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
})
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced-config">

```javascript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, WALLET_CONNECTORS, MFA_LEVELS } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  modalConfig: {
    connectors: {
      [WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH]: {
        label: 'auth',
        loginMethods: {
          google: {
            name: 'google login',
            // logoDark: "url to your custom logo which will shown in dark mode",
          },
          facebook: {
            name: 'facebook login',
            showOnModal: false, // hides the facebook option
          },
          email_passwordless: {
            name: 'email passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-email_passwordless-demo',
          },
          sms_passwordless: {
            name: 'sms passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-sms_passwordless-demo',
          },
        },
        showOnModal: true, // set to false to hide all social login methods
      },
    },
    hideWalletDiscovery: true, // set to true to hide external wallets discovery
  },
  mfaLevel: MFA_LEVELS.MANDATORY,
})
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Blockchain integration

Web3Auth is blockchain agnostic, enabling integration with any blockchain network. Out of the box, Web3Auth offers robust support for both **Solana** and **Ethereum**, each with dedicated provider methods.

### Solana integration

To interact with Solana networks, you can get the provider from Web3Auth and use it with Solana libraries:

```javascript
await web3auth.connect()
// Use with a Solana library
const solanaWallet = new SolanaWallet(web3auth.provider)
```

### Ethereum integration

For Ethereum integration, you can get the provider and use it with ethers or viem:

```javascript
await web3auth.connect()
// Use with ethers.js
const ethProvider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(web3auth.provider)
// OR
// Use with viem
const walletClient = createWalletClient({
  chain: getViewChain(web3auth.provider),
  transport: custom(web3auth.provider),
})
```

<SdkTroubleshootingIntro />
