embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_web3auth-options.mdx, before:

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic parameters", value: "basic" },
    { label: "Advanced parameters", value: "advanced" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic">

| Parameter                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientId`                        | [Mandatory] Client Id for web3auth. You can obtain your client id from the web3auth developer dashboard.                                                                                 |
| `web3AuthNetwork`                 | [Mandatory] Web3Auth Network to use for the session & the issued `idToken`. Default is `sapphire_mainnet`.                                                                               |
| `enableLogging?`                  | Setting to true will enable logs. Default is false.                                                                                                                                      |
| `sessionTime?`                    | Session Time (in seconds) for `idToken` issued by Web3Auth for server side verification. Default is 7 days (7 \* 86400). Max value can be 30 days (86400 \* 30) and min can be 1 sec (1) |
| `useSFAKey?`                      | Uses Single Factor Auth SDK key with web3auth provider. Default is false.                                                                                                                |
| `storageType?`                    | Setting to `local` will persist social login session across browser tabs. Default is `local`.                                                                                            |
| `defaultChainId?`                 | Default chain Id to use. Your first chain will be used as default.                                                                                                                       |
| `multiInjectedProviderDiscovery?` | Whether to enable discovery of injected wallets in the browser. Default is true.                                                                                                         |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced">

| Parameter                   | Description                                                                                              |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `chains?`                   | [Fetched automatically from Dashboard] Multiple chain configurations, only provided chains will be used. |
| `uiConfig?`                 | [Fetched automatically from Dashboard] Config for configuring UI display properties.                     |
| `modalConfig?`              | Helps you customize the modal UI elements and authentication methods.                                    |
| `accountAbstractionConfig?` | [Fetched automatically from Dashboard] Account abstraction config for your chain namespace.              |
| `useAAWithExternalWallet?`  | [Fetched automatically from Dashboard] Whether to use AA with external wallet.                           |
| `walletServicesConfig?`     | [Fetched automatically from Dashboard] Configure any parameter related to Wallet Services Plugin         |
| `ssr?`                      | Whether to enable SSR mode.                                                                              |
| `mfaSettings?`              | MFA settings for the auth connector.                                                                     |
| `mfaLevel?`                 | MFA level for the auth connector.                                                                        |
| `privateKeyProvider?`       | Private key provider for your chain namespace.                                                           |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```tsx
export interface Web3AuthOptions extends IWeb3AuthCoreOptions {
  /**
   * Config for configuring modal ui display properties
   */
  uiConfig?: Omit<UIConfig, "connectorListener">;
  /**
   * Config for configuring modal ui display properties
   */
  modalConfig?: ConnectorsModalConfig;
}

export interface IWeb3AuthCoreOptions {
  /**
   * Client id for web3auth.
   * You can obtain your client id from the web3auth developer dashboard.
   * You can set any random string for this on localhost.
   */
  clientId: string;
  /**
   * multiple chain configurations,
   * only provided chains will be used
   */
  chains?: CustomChainConfig[];
  /**
   * default chain Id to use
   */
  defaultChainId?: string;
  /**
   * setting to true will enable logs
   *
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  enableLogging?: boolean;
  /**
   * setting to "local" will persist social login session across browser tabs.
   *
   * @defaultValue "local"
   */
  storageType?: "session" | "local" | "cookies";
  /**
   * sessionTime (in seconds) for idToken issued by Web3Auth for server side verification.
   * @defaultValue 7 * 86400
   *
   * Note: max value can be 30 days (86400 * 30) and min can be  1 sec (1)
   */
  sessionTime?: number;
  /**
   * Web3Auth Network to use for the session.
   */
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK_TYPE;
  /**
   * Uses core-kit key with web3auth provider
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  useSFAKey?: boolean;
  /**
   * WhiteLabel options for web3auth
   */
  uiConfig?: UIConfig;
  /**
   * Account abstraction config for your chain namespace
   */
  accountAbstractionConfig?: AccountAbstractionMultiChainConfig;
  /**
   * Whether to use AA with external wallet
   */
  useAAWithExternalWallet?: boolean;
  /**
   * Connectors to use
   */
  connectors?: ConnectorFn[];
  /**
   * Plugins to use
   */
  plugins?: PluginFn[];
  /**
   * Whether to enable multi injected provider discovery
   * @defaultValue true
   */
  multiInjectedProviderDiscovery?: boolean;
  /**
   * Wallet services config
   */
  walletServicesConfig?: WalletServicesConfig;
  /**
   * Private key provider for xrpl, mpc cases
   */
  privateKeyProvider?: IBaseProvider<string>;
  /**
   * Whether to enable SSR mode
   *
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  ssr?: boolean;
  /**
   * Build environment for Auth connector
   * @internal
   * @defaultValue BUILD_ENV.PRODUCTION
   */
  authBuildEnv?: BUILD_ENV_TYPE;
  /**
   * MFA settings for the auth connector
   */
  mfaSettings?: MfaSettings;
  /**
   * MFA level for the auth connector
   */
  mfaLevel?: MfaLevelType;
}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_web3auth-options.mdx, after:

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic parameters", value: "basic" },
    { label: "Advanced parameters", value: "advanced" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic">

| Parameter                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientId`                        | (Mandatory) Client ID, available from the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).                                                                                 |
| `web3AuthNetwork`                 | (Mandatory) Web3Auth network to use for the session and the issued `idToken`. Default is `sapphire_mainnet`.                                                                               |
| `enableLogging?`                  | Setting to true enables logs. Default is false.                                                                                                                                      |
| `sessionTime?`                    | Session Time (in seconds) for `idToken` issued by Web3Auth for server side verification. Default is 7 days (7 \* 86400). Max value can be 30 days (86400 \* 30) and min can be 1 sec (1) |
| `useSFAKey?`                      | Uses Single Factor Auth SDK key with Web3Auth provider. Default is false.                                                                                                                |
| `storageType?`                    | Setting to `local` persists social login session across browser tabs. Default is `local`.                                                                                            |
| `defaultChainId?`                 | Default chain ID to use. Your first chain will be used as default.                                                                                                                       |
| `multiInjectedProviderDiscovery?` | Whether to enable discovery of injected wallets in the browser. Default is true.                                                                                                         |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced">

| Parameter                   | Description                                                                                              |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `chains?`                   | (Fetched automatically from dashboard) Multiple chain configurations, only provided chains will be used. |
| `uiConfig?`                 | (Fetched automatically from dashboard) Config for configuring UI display properties.                     |
| `modalConfig?`              | Helps you customize the modal UI elements and authentication methods.                                    |
| `accountAbstractionConfig?` | (Fetched automatically from Dashboard) Account abstraction config for your chain namespace.              |
| `useAAWithExternalWallet?`  | (Fetched automatically from Dashboard) Whether to use AA with external wallet.                           |
| `walletServicesConfig?`     | (Fetched automatically from Dashboard) Configure any parameter related to Wallet Services plugin         |
| `ssr?`                      | Whether to enable SSR mode.                                                                              |
| `mfaSettings?`              | MFA settings for the auth connector.                                                                     |
| `mfaLevel?`                 | MFA level for the auth connector.                                                                        |
| `privateKeyProvider?`       | Private key provider for your chain namespace.                                                           |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```tsx
export interface Web3AuthOptions extends IWeb3AuthCoreOptions {
  /**
   * Config for configuring modal ui display properties
   */
  uiConfig?: Omit<UIConfig, "connectorListener">;
  /**
   * Config for configuring modal ui display properties
   */
  modalConfig?: ConnectorsModalConfig;
}

export interface IWeb3AuthCoreOptions {
  /**
   * Client id for web3auth.
   * You can obtain your client id from the web3auth developer dashboard.
   * You can set any random string for this on localhost.
   */
  clientId: string;
  /**
   * multiple chain configurations,
   * only provided chains will be used
   */
  chains?: CustomChainConfig[];
  /**
   * default chain Id to use
   */
  defaultChainId?: string;
  /**
   * setting to true will enable logs
   *
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  enableLogging?: boolean;
  /**
   * setting to "local" will persist social login session across browser tabs.
   *
   * @defaultValue "local"
   */
  storageType?: "session" | "local" | "cookies";
  /**
   * sessionTime (in seconds) for idToken issued by Web3Auth for server side verification.
   * @defaultValue 7 * 86400
   *
   * Note: max value can be 30 days (86400 * 30) and min can be  1 sec (1)
   */
  sessionTime?: number;
  /**
   * Web3Auth Network to use for the session.
   */
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK_TYPE;
  /**
   * Uses core-kit key with web3auth provider
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  useSFAKey?: boolean;
  /**
   * Whitelabel options for web3auth
   */
  uiConfig?: UIConfig;
  /**
   * Account abstraction config for your chain namespace
   */
  accountAbstractionConfig?: AccountAbstractionMultiChainConfig;
  /**
   * Whether to use AA with external wallet
   */
  useAAWithExternalWallet?: boolean;
  /**
   * Connectors to use
   */
  connectors?: ConnectorFn[];
  /**
   * Plugins to use
   */
  plugins?: PluginFn[];
  /**
   * Whether to enable multi injected provider discovery
   * @defaultValue true
   */
  multiInjectedProviderDiscovery?: boolean;
  /**
   * Wallet services config
   */
  walletServicesConfig?: WalletServicesConfig;
  /**
   * Private key provider for xrpl, mpc cases
   */
  privateKeyProvider?: IBaseProvider<string>;
  /**
   * Whether to enable SSR mode
   *
   * @defaultValue false
   */
  ssr?: boolean;
  /**
   * Build environment for Auth connector
   * @internal
   * @defaultValue BUILD_ENV.PRODUCTION
   */
  authBuildEnv?: BUILD_ENV_TYPE;
  /**
   * MFA settings for the auth connector
   */
  mfaSettings?: MfaSettings;
  /**
   * MFA level for the auth connector
   */
  mfaLevel?: MfaLevelType;
}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>
