sdk/introduction/welcome.md, before:

---
slug: /
sidebar_label: Welcome
description: Introduction page for MetaMask SDK documentation.
---

# Build onchain dapps with MetaMask SDK

MetaMask SDK is a toolkit that allows you to build onchain dapps.
With the SDK, you can:

- Authenticate users.
- Manage wallet states.
- Handle transactions.
- Interact with contracts.

[Get started with JavaScript and Wagmi.](quickstart/javascript-wagmi.md)

## Why use the SDK?

The benefits of using MetaMask SDK include the following:

- It works on multiple dapp platforms:
  - Web dapps - Connect to the MetaMask browser extension or use QR codes to connect to MetaMask Mobile.
  - Mobile dapps - Use deeplinks to connect to MetaMask Mobile.
- It works with all EVM-compatible L1/L2 networks.
- It handles onboarding of users.
- It is battle tested with millions of users on MetaMask.

## Where do I start?

You can get started quickly with the following dapp platforms:

- [JavaScript + Wagmi (recommended)](quickstart/javascript-wagmi.md)
- [JavaScript](quickstart/javascript.md)
- [Dynamic SDK integration](quickstart/javascript-dynamic.md)
- [React Native](quickstart/react-native.md)

Commit message:

Add embedded wallets.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

sdk/introduction/welcome.md, after:

---
slug: /
sidebar_label: Welcome
description: Introduction page for MetaMask SDK documentation.
---

# Build onchain dapps with MetaMask SDK

MetaMask SDK is a toolkit that allows you to build onchain dapps.
With the SDK, you can:

- Authenticate users.
- Manage wallet states.
- Handle transactions.
- Interact with contracts.

[Get started with JavaScript and Wagmi.](quickstart/javascript-wagmi.md)

:::tip Build embedded wallet experiences that work seamlessly with MetaMask
Introducing our latest [Embedded Wallets SDK](https://web3auth.io/docs) (previously Web3Auth), you can now onboard users
instantly and design seamless onchain experiences with social logins, passkeys and more.
:::

## Why use the SDK?

The benefits of using MetaMask SDK include the following:

- It works on multiple dapp platforms:
  - Web dapps - Connect to the MetaMask browser extension or use QR codes to connect to MetaMask Mobile.
  - Mobile dapps - Use deeplinks to connect to MetaMask Mobile.
- It works with all EVM-compatible L1/L2 networks.
- It handles onboarding of users.
- It is battle tested with millions of users on MetaMask.

## Where do I start?

You can get started quickly with the following dapp platforms:

- [JavaScript + Wagmi (recommended)](quickstart/javascript-wagmi.md)
- [JavaScript](quickstart/javascript.md)
- [Dynamic SDK integration](quickstart/javascript-dynamic.md)
- [React Native](quickstart/react-native.md)
