embedded-wallets/sdk/node/blockchain-connection.mdx, before:

---
title: Blockchain Connection
description: 'Integrate with Blockchain Networks'
---

Web3Auth Node SDK supports multiple blockchain networks through different integration methods. On a successful connection, it returns a `result` object containing the provider/ signer for blockchain operations.

By default you get the standard Web3Auth provider, with the ability to get the private key, if enabled from the dashboard. You additionally get the signer for EVM and Solana chains, to be able to do transactions without the need to use the private key provider directly.

### Object Structure

```typescript
import type { TransactionSigner } from '@solana/signers'
import type { Wallet } from 'ethers'
import type { CHAIN_NAMESPACES, IBaseProvider } from '@web3auth/no-modal'
export type PrivateKeyProvider = IBaseProvider<string>

export type WalletResult =
  | {
      chainNamespace: typeof CHAIN_NAMESPACES.SOLANA
      provider: PrivateKeyProvider
      signer: TransactionSigner
    }
  | {
      chainNamespace: typeof CHAIN_NAMESPACES.EIP155
      provider: PrivateKeyProvider
      signer: Wallet
    }
  | {
      chainNamespace: typeof CHAIN_NAMESPACES.OTHER
      provider: PrivateKeyProvider
      signer: null
    }
```

### EVM Chains (Ethereum, Polygon, BSC, etc.)

Use the provider with ethers.js or convert to viem:

```javascript
// focus-next-line
const { ethers } = require('ethers')

// Get Ethereum Accounts
const getAccounts = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-next-line
    const address = await signer.getAddress()
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Accounts:', address)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching accounts:', error)
  }
}

// Get Ethereum Balance
const getBalance = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-start
    const address = await signer.getAddress()
    const balance = ethers.formatEther(
      await signer.provider.getBalance(address) // Balance is in wei
    )
    // focus-end
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Balance:', balance, 'ETH')
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching balance:', error)
  }
}

// Sign Ethereum Message
const signMessage = async (signer, message) => {
  try {
    // focus-next-line
    const signature = await signer.signMessage(message)
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Signed Message:', signature)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error signing message:', error)
  }
}

await getAccounts(result.signer) // Get Ethereum Accounts
await getBalance(result.signer) // Get Ethereum Balance
await signMessage(result.signer, 'Hello Web3Auth!') // Sign a Message
```

### Solana Integration

Access Solana wallet functionality:

```javascript
const { LAMPORTS_PER_SOL, Connection, PublicKey } = require('@solana/web3.js')
const { createSignableMessage } = require('@solana/signers')

// Get Solana Accounts
const getAccounts = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-next-line
    const publicKey = signer.address
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Public Key:', publicKey)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching accounts:', error)
  }
}

// Get Solana Balance
const getBalance = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-start
    const publicKey = new PublicKey(signer.address)
    const connection = new Connection('https://api.devnet.solana.com')
    const balance = (await connection.getBalance(publicKey)) / LAMPORTS_PER_SOL
    // focus-end
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Balance:', balance, 'SOL')
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching balance:', error)
  }
}

// Sign Solana Message
const signMessage = async (signer, message) => {
  try {
    // focus-start
    const messageBytes = new TextEncoder().encode(message)

    // Create a SignableMessage object from Uint8Array
    const signableMessage = createSignableMessage(messageBytes)

    const [signature] = await signer.signMessages([signableMessage])
    // focus-end
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Signed Message:', signature)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error signing message:', error)
  }
}

await getAccounts(result.signer) // Get Solana Accounts
await getBalance(result.signer) // Get Solana Balance
await signMessage(result.signer, 'Hello Web3Auth!') // Sign a Message
```

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/node/blockchain-connection.mdx, after:

---
title: Blockchain Connection
description: 'Integrate with Blockchain Networks'
---

The Embedded Wallets Node SDK supports multiple blockchain networks through different integration methods. On a successful connection, it returns a `result` object containing the provider/ signer for blockchain operations.

By default you get the standard Web3Auth provider, with the ability to get the private key, if enabled from the dashboard. You additionally get the signer for EVM and Solana chains, to be able to do transactions without the need to use the private key provider directly.

### Object structure

```typescript
import type { TransactionSigner } from '@solana/signers'
import type { Wallet } from 'ethers'
import type { CHAIN_NAMESPACES, IBaseProvider } from '@web3auth/no-modal'
export type PrivateKeyProvider = IBaseProvider<string>

export type WalletResult =
  | {
      chainNamespace: typeof CHAIN_NAMESPACES.SOLANA
      provider: PrivateKeyProvider
      signer: TransactionSigner
    }
  | {
      chainNamespace: typeof CHAIN_NAMESPACES.EIP155
      provider: PrivateKeyProvider
      signer: Wallet
    }
  | {
      chainNamespace: typeof CHAIN_NAMESPACES.OTHER
      provider: PrivateKeyProvider
      signer: null
    }
```

### EVM chains 

For EVM-compatible chains such as Ethereum, Polygon, BSC.

Use the provider with ethers.js or convert to viem:

```javascript
// focus-next-line
const { ethers } = require('ethers')

// Get Ethereum Accounts
const getAccounts = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-next-line
    const address = await signer.getAddress()
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Accounts:', address)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching accounts:', error)
  }
}

// Get Ethereum Balance
const getBalance = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-start
    const address = await signer.getAddress()
    const balance = ethers.formatEther(
      await signer.provider.getBalance(address) // Balance is in wei
    )
    // focus-end
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Balance:', balance, 'ETH')
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching balance:', error)
  }
}

// Sign Ethereum Message
const signMessage = async (signer, message) => {
  try {
    // focus-next-line
    const signature = await signer.signMessage(message)
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Signed Message:', signature)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error signing message:', error)
  }
}

await getAccounts(result.signer) // Get Ethereum Accounts
await getBalance(result.signer) // Get Ethereum Balance
await signMessage(result.signer, 'Hello Web3Auth!') // Sign a Message
```

### Solana integration

Access Solana wallet functionality:

```javascript
const { LAMPORTS_PER_SOL, Connection, PublicKey } = require('@solana/web3.js')
const { createSignableMessage } = require('@solana/signers')

// Get Solana Accounts
const getAccounts = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-next-line
    const publicKey = signer.address
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Public Key:', publicKey)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching accounts:', error)
  }
}

// Get Solana Balance
const getBalance = async signer => {
  try {
    // focus-start
    const publicKey = new PublicKey(signer.address)
    const connection = new Connection('https://api.devnet.solana.com')
    const balance = (await connection.getBalance(publicKey)) / LAMPORTS_PER_SOL
    // focus-end
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Balance:', balance, 'SOL')
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error fetching balance:', error)
  }
}

// Sign Solana Message
const signMessage = async (signer, message) => {
  try {
    // focus-start
    const messageBytes = new TextEncoder().encode(message)

    // Create a SignableMessage object from Uint8Array
    const signableMessage = createSignableMessage(messageBytes)

    const [signature] = await signer.signMessages([signableMessage])
    // focus-end
    console.log('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Signed Message:', signature)
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('\x1b[33m%s\x1b[0m', 'Error signing message:', error)
  }
}

await getAccounts(result.signer) // Get Solana Accounts
await getBalance(result.signer) // Get Solana Balance
await signMessage(result.signer, 'Hello Web3Auth!') // Sign a Message
```
