embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Arbitrum Blockchain
sidebar_label: Arbitrum
hide_table_of_contents: true
keywords:
  [
    arbitrum,
    wallet,
    integration,
    web3auth,
    API,
    SDK,
    authentication,
    blockchain,
    solution,
    development,
  ]
image: 'img/embedded-wallets/banners/arbitrum.png'
description: 'Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Arbitrum Blockchain | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tiles from '@theme/Tiles'
import ChainDetailsArbitrum from '../../_general-connect-blockchain/_arbitrum.mdx'

Integrate Embedded Wallets (formerly Web3Auth) seamlessly with the EVM-based Arbitrum blockchain. For Web SDKs, you get a MetaMask-style EIP-1193 provider compatible with ethers.js and web3.js. For Embedded Wallets Mobile SDKs (Android, iOS, React Native), the private key is available in the SDK state for direct signing and JSON-RPC calls.

::::note

The SDKs are now branded as MetaMask Embedded Wallet SDKs (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play SDKs). Package names and APIs remain Web3Auth (for example, Web3Auth React SDK), and code snippets may reference `web3auth` identifiers.

::::

This documentation provides a straightforward guide for developers looking to implement blockchain connections quickly and effortlessly across various platforms.

## Chain Details for Arbitrum

<ChainDetailsArbitrum />

export const Arbitrum = [
  {
    name: '',
    description: '',
    tiles: [
      {
        key: 'web',
        title: 'Web',
        icon: 'logo-js.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/web',
      },
      {
        key: 'android',
        title: 'Android (Kotlin)',
        icon: 'logo-android.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/android',
      },
      {
        key: 'apple',
        title: 'iOS (Swift)',
        icon: 'logo-apple.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/ios',
      },
      {
        key: 'flutter',
        title: 'Flutter',
        icon: 'logo-flutter.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/flutter',
      },
      {
        key: 'react-native',
        title: 'React Native',
        icon: 'logo-react.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/react-native',
      },
      {
        key: 'unity',
        title: 'Unity',
        icon: 'logo-unity.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/unity',
      },
    ],
  },
]

<Tiles tileGroups={Arbitrum} />

Commit message:

Restructure Embedded Wallets Docs (#2399)
* reshuffle evm chains

* Add node for evm chains

* Change help link

* Change home hero section

* Update sub nav bar

* Update connect blockchain section

* Fix node logo issues

* fix duplication errors

* fix broken links

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Arbitrum Blockchain
sidebar_label: Overview

keywords:
  [
    arbitrum,
    wallet,
    integration,
    web3auth,
    API,
    SDK,
    authentication,
    blockchain,
    solution,
    development,
  ]
image: 'img/embedded-wallets/banners/arbitrum.png'
description: 'Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Arbitrum Blockchain | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tiles from '@theme/Tiles'
import ChainDetailsArbitrum from '../../_general-connect-blockchain/_arbitrum.mdx'

Integrate Web3Auth seamlessly with EVM-based Arbitrum blockchain. For Web SDKs, Web3Auth returns a provider that can be directly used to initialize the libraries like ethers.js, web3.js etc. and make blockchain calls, while for Mobile & Gaming SDKs, the private key is available in the user scope which can be used in a similar way to initialize the respective blockchain interaction libraries and make calls to the network.

This documentation provides a straightforward guide for developers looking to implement blockchain connections quickly and effortlessly across various platforms.

## Chain Details for Arbitrum

<ChainDetailsArbitrum />

export const Arbitrum = [
  {
    name: '',
    description: '',
    tiles: [
      {
        key: 'react',
        title: 'React',
        icon: 'logo-react.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/react',
          },
            {
        key: 'vue',
        title: 'Vue',
        icon: 'logo-vue.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/vue',
      },

      {
        key: 'javascript',
        title: 'JavaScript',
        icon: 'logo-js.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/javascript',
      },
      {
        key: 'android',
        title: 'Android (Kotlin)',
        icon: 'logo-android.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/android',
      },
      {
        key: 'apple',
        title: 'iOS (Swift)',
        icon: 'logo-apple.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/ios',
      },
      {
        key: 'flutter',
        title: 'Flutter',
        icon: 'logo-flutter.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/flutter',
      },
      {
        key: 'react-native',
        title: 'React Native',
        icon: 'logo-react.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/react-native',
          },
          {
            key: 'node',
            title: 'Node',
            icon: 'logo-nodejs.png',
            path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/node',
      },
      {
        key: 'unity',
        title: 'Unity',
        icon: 'logo-unity.png',
        path: '/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/arbitrum/unity',
      },
    ],

},
]

<Tiles tileGroups={Arbitrum} />
