services/reference/zksync/index.md, before:

---
description: ZKsync Era network documentation
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# ZKsync Era

:::note Decentralized Infrastructure Network (DIN)

ZKsync Era is supported through the [DIN](https://www.infura.io/solutions/decentralized-infrastructure-service) service,
meaning calls to the network are routed to [partner infrastructure providers](#partners-and-privacy-policies).

Infura provides Open Beta access to the ZKsync Era network. During this period, there might be feature limitations. Performance issues are not expected, but they are possible as we optimize and stabilize the service.

Currently, historical state data starting from June 19th, 2024 is available. Full historical state information for ZKsync Era will be announced when it is available.

:::

ZKsync Era is a zero-knowledge Ethereum Virtual Machine (zkEVM) that scales Ethereum.

:::info see also

See the [official ZKsync Era documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/build) for more information.

:::

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the ZKsync Era network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the ZKsync Era network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key, secure it, and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>

## Partners and privacy policies

The following partners provide access to the ZKsync Era network:

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->

- Chainstack ([Terms of Use](https://chainstack.com/tos/), [Privacy Policy](https://chainstack.com/privacy/))
- Liquify ([Privacy Policy](https://www.liquify.com/Liquify_RPC_PP.pdf))
- NorthWest Nodes
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

Commit message:

Update  partner information.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

services/reference/zksync/index.md, after:

---
description: ZKsync Era network documentation
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# ZKsync Era

:::note Decentralized Infrastructure Network (DIN)

ZKsync Era is supported through the [DIN](https://www.infura.io/solutions/decentralized-infrastructure-service) service,
meaning calls to the network are routed to [partner infrastructure providers](#partners-and-privacy-policies).

Infura provides Open Beta access to the ZKsync Era network. During this period, there might be feature limitations. Performance issues are not expected, but they are possible as we optimize and stabilize the service.

Currently, historical state data starting from June 19th, 2024 is available. Full historical state information for ZKsync Era will be announced when it is available.

:::

ZKsync Era is a zero-knowledge Ethereum Virtual Machine (zkEVM) that scales Ethereum.

:::info see also

See the [official ZKsync Era documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/build) for more information.

:::

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the ZKsync Era network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the ZKsync Era network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key, secure it, and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>

## Partners and privacy policies

No personal information is sent as part of partner requests, only information necessary to fulfill your API request. This means that Infura's partner service provider can service your request, but not store the content of your request.

The following partners provide access to the ZKsync Era network:

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
- Chainstack ([Terms of Use](https://chainstack.com/tos/), [Privacy Policy](https://chainstack.com/privacy/))
- Liquify ([Privacy Policy](https://www.liquify.com/Liquify_RPC_PP.pdf))
- [NorthWest Nodes](https://northwestnodes.com/)
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->
