embedded-wallets/sdk/flutter/advanced/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced Configuration
sidebar_label: Overview
description: 'Web3Auth Flutter SDK - Advanced Configuration | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

The Web3Auth SDK provides extensive configuration options that allow you to customize authentication flows, UI appearance, blockchain integrations, and security features to meet your application's specific requirements.

## Configuration Structure

When setting up Web3Auth, you'll pass in the options to the constructor. This consists of:

```dart
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/web3auth_flutter.dart';
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/enums.dart';
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/input.dart';
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/output.dart';
import 'dart:io';

Future<void> initWeb3Auth() async {

  late final Uri redirectUrl;

  if (Platform.isAndroid) {
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse('{SCHEME}://{HOST}/auth');
    // w3a://com.example.w3aflutter/auth
  } else {
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse('{bundleId}://auth');
    // com.example.w3aflutter://auth
  }

  // focus-start

  await Web3AuthFlutter.init(Web3AuthOptions(
    clientId: "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
    network: Network.sapphire_mainnet, // or Network.sapphire_devnet
    redirectUrl: redirectUrl,
  ));

  // focus-end
}
```

### `Web3AuthOptions`

The Web3Auth Constructor takes an object with `Web3AuthOptions` as input.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Class", value: "class" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientId`     | Your Web3Auth Client ID from the [Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/). It's a mandatory field of type `String`.              |
| `network`      | Web3Auth Network: `sapphire_mainnet`, `sapphire_devnet`, `mainnet`, `cyan`, `aqua` or `testnet`. Mandatory field of type `Network`. |
| `redirectUrl`  | URL that Web3Auth will redirect API responses upon successful authentication. It's a mandatory field of type `Uri`.                 |
| `whiteLabel?`  | WhiteLabel options for custom UI, branding, and translations. Takes `WhiteLabelData` as a value.                                    |
| `loginConfig?` | Login config for custom verifiers. Takes `HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>` as a value.                                             |
| `mfaSettings?` | Configure MFA settings for authentication. Takes `MfaSettings` as a value.                                                          |
| `sessionTime?` | Configure session management time in seconds. Default is 86400 seconds (1 day). Max 30 days.                                        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="class">

```dart
class Web3AuthOptions {
  final String clientId;
  final Network network;
  final BuildEnv? buildEnv;
  final String? sdkUrl;
  final Uri redirectUrl;
  final WhiteLabelData? whiteLabel;
  final HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>? loginConfig;
  final bool? useCoreKitKey;
  final ChainNamespace? chainNamespace;
  final MfaSettings? mfaSettings;
  final int? sessionTime;

  Web3AuthOptions({
    required this.clientId,
    required this.network,
    this.buildEnv = BuildEnv.production,
    String? sdkUrl,
    required this.redirectUrl,
    this.whiteLabel,
    this.loginConfig,
    this.useCoreKitKey,
    this.chainNamespace = ChainNamespace.eip155,
    this.sessionTime = 86400,
    this.mfaSettings,
  }): sdkUrl = sdkUrl ?? getSdkUrl(buildEnv ?? BuildEnv.production);

  Map<String, dynamic> toJson() {
    return {
      'clientId': clientId,
      'network': network.name,
      'sdkUrl': sdkUrl,
      'buildEnv': buildEnv?.name,
      'redirectUrl': redirectUrl.toString(),
      'whiteLabel': whiteLabel?.toJson(),
      'loginConfig': loginConfig,
      'useCoreKitKey': useCoreKitKey,
      'chainNamespace': chainNamespace?.name,
      'mfaSettings': mfaSettings,
      'sessionTime': sessionTime,
    };
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Session Management

Control how long users stay authenticated and how sessions persist. The session key is stored in the device's encrypted Keystore.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `sessionTime` - Session duration in seconds. Controls how long users remain authenticated before needing to log in again.
  - Minimum: 1 second (`1`).
  - Maximum: 30 days (`86400 * 30`).
  - Default: 7 days (`86400 * 7`).

```dart
await Web3AuthFlutter.init(Web3AuthOptions(
    clientId: "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
    network: Network.sapphire_mainnet, // or Network.sapphire_devnet
    sessionTime: 86400 * 7, // 7 days (in seconds)
    redirectUrl: redirectUrl,
));
```

## Custom Authentication Methods

Control the login options presented to your users. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Custom Authentication](./custom-authentication.mdx) section.

## UI Customization

Create a seamless brand experience by customizing the Web3Auth Login Screens to match your application's design. For complete customization options, refer to the [Whitelabeling & UI Customization](./whitelabel.mdx) section.

## Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

Add additional security layers to protect user accounts with two-factor authentication. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Multi-Factor Authentication](./mfa.mdx) section.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `mfaSettings` - Configure MFA settings for different authentication flows
- `mfaLevel` - Control when users are prompted to set up MFA

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/flutter/advanced/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced Configuration
sidebar_label: Overview
description: 'Web3Auth Flutter SDK - Advanced Configuration | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

The Embedded Wallets SDK provides extensive configuration options that allow you to customize authentication flows, UI appearance, blockchain integrations, and security features to meet your application's specific requirements.

## Configuration structure

When setting up Embedded Wallets, you'll pass in the options to the constructor. This consists of:

```dart
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/web3auth_flutter.dart';
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/enums.dart';
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/input.dart';
import 'package:web3auth_flutter/output.dart';
import 'dart:io';

Future<void> initWeb3Auth() async {

  late final Uri redirectUrl;

  if (Platform.isAndroid) {
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse('{SCHEME}://{HOST}/auth');
    // w3a://com.example.w3aflutter/auth
  } else {
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse('{bundleId}://auth');
    // com.example.w3aflutter://auth
  }

  // focus-start

  await Web3AuthFlutter.init(Web3AuthOptions(
    clientId: "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard dashboard
    network: Network.sapphire_mainnet, // or Network.sapphire_devnet
    redirectUrl: redirectUrl,
  ));

  // focus-end
}
```

### `Web3AuthOptions`

The Web3Auth Constructor takes an object with `Web3AuthOptions` as input.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Class", value: "class" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientId`     | Your Web3Auth Client ID from the [Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/). It's a mandatory field of type `String`.              |
| `network`      | Web3Auth Network: `sapphire_mainnet`, `sapphire_devnet`, `mainnet`, `cyan`, `aqua` or `testnet`. Mandatory field of type `Network`. |
| `redirectUrl`  | URL that Web3Auth will redirect API responses upon successful authentication. It's a mandatory field of type `Uri`.                 |
| `whiteLabel?`  | Whitelabel options for custom UI, branding, and translations. Takes `WhiteLabelData` as a value.                                    |
| `loginConfig?` | Login config for custom verifiers. Takes `HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>` as a value.                                             |
| `mfaSettings?` | Configure MFA settings for authentication. Takes `MfaSettings` as a value.                                                          |
| `sessionTime?` | Configure session management time in seconds. Default is 86400 seconds (1 day). Max 30 days.                                        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="class">

```dart
class Web3AuthOptions {
  final String clientId;
  final Network network;
  final BuildEnv? buildEnv;
  final String? sdkUrl;
  final Uri redirectUrl;
  final WhiteLabelData? whiteLabel;
  final HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>? loginConfig;
  final bool? useCoreKitKey;
  final ChainNamespace? chainNamespace;
  final MfaSettings? mfaSettings;
  final int? sessionTime;

  Web3AuthOptions({
    required this.clientId,
    required this.network,
    this.buildEnv = BuildEnv.production,
    String? sdkUrl,
    required this.redirectUrl,
    this.whiteLabel,
    this.loginConfig,
    this.useCoreKitKey,
    this.chainNamespace = ChainNamespace.eip155,
    this.sessionTime = 86400,
    this.mfaSettings,
  }): sdkUrl = sdkUrl ?? getSdkUrl(buildEnv ?? BuildEnv.production);

  Map<String, dynamic> toJson() {
    return {
      'clientId': clientId,
      'network': network.name,
      'sdkUrl': sdkUrl,
      'buildEnv': buildEnv?.name,
      'redirectUrl': redirectUrl.toString(),
      'whiteLabel': whiteLabel?.toJson(),
      'loginConfig': loginConfig,
      'useCoreKitKey': useCoreKitKey,
      'chainNamespace': chainNamespace?.name,
      'mfaSettings': mfaSettings,
      'sessionTime': sessionTime,
    };
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Session management

Control how long users stay authenticated and how sessions persist. The session key is stored in the device's encrypted Keystore.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `sessionTime` - Session duration in seconds. Controls how long users remain authenticated before needing to log in again.
  - Minimum: 1 second (`1`).
  - Maximum: 30 days (`86400 * 30`).
  - Default: 7 days (`86400 * 7`).

```dart
await Web3AuthFlutter.init(Web3AuthOptions(
    clientId: "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard dashboard
    network: Network.sapphire_mainnet, // or Network.sapphire_devnet
    sessionTime: 86400 * 7, // 7 days (in seconds)
    redirectUrl: redirectUrl,
));
```

## Custom authentication methods

Control the login options presented to your users. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [custom authentication](./custom-authentication.mdx) section.

## UI customization

Create a seamless brand experience by customizing the Web3Auth Login Screens to match your application's design. For complete customization options, refer to the [whitelabeling and UI customization](./whitelabel.mdx) section.

## Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

Add additional security layers to protect user accounts with two-factor authentication. See the [detailed configuration options and implementation examples](./mfa.mdx).

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `mfaSettings` - Configure MFA settings for different authentication flows
- `mfaLevel` - Control when users are prompted to set up MFA
