embedded-wallets/sdk/react/_ethereum-hooks-snippets.mdx, before:

You need to install the `wagmi` and `@tanstack/react-query` packages and use the **Web3Auth
implementation of `WagmiProvider`** for configuration.

:::info

The Web3Auth implementation of `WagmiProvider` is a custom implementation that is used to integrate
with the Web3Auth Modal SDK. It is a wrapper around the `WagmiProvider` that makes it compatible.

With this implementation, you can use the Wagmi hooks, however **no external connectors are
supported**. Web3Auth provides a whole suite of connectors which you can use directly for a better
experience with external wallets.

:::

```bash npm2yarn
npm install wagmi @tanstack/react-query
```

```tsx title="main.tsx"
import "./index.css";

import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { Web3AuthProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react";
import web3AuthContextConfig from "./web3authContext";
// focus-start
import { WagmiProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react/wagmi";
import { QueryClient, QueryClientProvider } from "@tanstack/react-query";
// focus-end

import App from "./App";

// focus-next-line
const queryClient = new QueryClient();

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root") as HTMLElement).render(
  <Web3AuthProvider config={web3AuthContextConfig}>
    {/* focus-start */}
    <QueryClientProvider client={queryClient}>
      <WagmiProvider>
        <App />
      </WagmiProvider>
    </QueryClientProvider>
    {/* focus-end */}
  </Web3AuthProvider>,
);
```

:::info

Wagmi provides a comprehensive set of React hooks for Ethereum and EVM-compatible chains. Web3Auth
integrates seamlessly with Wagmi, so you can use hooks like `useAccount`, `useBalance`,
`useSendTransaction`, and more, out of the box.

:::

Below are some examples of using Wagmi hooks in your dApp after Web3Auth and Wagmi are set up. You
can note these functions work directly with Wagmi. Once you have set up Wagmi with Web3Auth, you can
use any Wagmi hook as you would in a standard Wagmi application.

### Get Account Balance

```tsx
import { useAccount, useBalance } from "wagmi";
import { formatUnits } from "viem";

export function Balance() {
  const { address } = useAccount();
  const { data, isLoading, error } = useBalance({ address });

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Balance</h2>
      <div>
        {data?.value !== undefined && `${formatUnits(data.value, data.decimals)} ${data.symbol}`}{" "}
        {isLoading && "Loading..."} {error && "Error: " + error.message}
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Send Transaction

```tsx
import { FormEvent } from "react";
import { useWaitForTransactionReceipt, useSendTransaction, BaseError } from "wagmi";
import { Hex, parseEther } from "viem";

export function SendTransaction() {
  const { data: hash, error, isPending, sendTransaction } = useSendTransaction();

  async function submit(e: FormEvent<HTMLFormElement>) {
    e.preventDefault();
    const formData = new FormData(e.target as HTMLFormElement);
    const to = formData.get("address") as Hex;
    const value = formData.get("value") as string;
    sendTransaction({ to, value: parseEther(value) });
  }

  const { isLoading: isConfirming, isSuccess: isConfirmed } = useWaitForTransactionReceipt({
    hash,
  });

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Send Transaction</h2>
      <form onSubmit={submit}>
        <input name="address" placeholder="Address" required />
        <input name="value" placeholder="Amount (ETH)" type="number" step="0.000000001" required />
        <button disabled={isPending} type="submit">
          {isPending ? "Confirming..." : "Send"}
        </button>
      </form>
      {hash && <div>Transaction Hash: {hash}</div>}
      {isConfirming && "Waiting for confirmation..."}
      {isConfirmed && "Transaction confirmed."}
      {error && <div>Error: {(error as BaseError).shortMessage || error.message}</div>}
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Switch Chain

```tsx
import { useChainId, useSwitchChain } from "wagmi";

export function SwitchChain() {
  const chainId = useChainId();
  const { chains, switchChain, error } = useSwitchChain();

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Switch Chain</h2>
      <h3>Connected to {chainId}</h3>
      {chains.map((chain) => (
        <button
          disabled={chainId === chain.id}
          key={chain.id}
          onClick={() => switchChain({ chainId: chain.id })}
          type="button"
          className="card"
        >
          {chain.name}
        </button>
      ))}
      {error?.message}
    </div>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/react/_ethereum-hooks-snippets.mdx, after:

You need to install the `wagmi` and `@tanstack/react-query` packages and use the Embedded Wallets
implementation of `WagmiProvider` for configuration.

:::info

The Embedded Wallets implementation of `WagmiProvider` is a custom implementation that is used to integrate
with the Embedded Wallets/Web3Auth Modal SDK. It is a wrapper around the `WagmiProvider` that makes it compatible.

With this implementation, you can use the Wagmi hooks, however **no external connectors are
supported**. Embedded Wallets provides a whole suite of connectors which you can use directly for a better
experience with external wallets.

:::

```bash npm2yarn
npm install wagmi @tanstack/react-query
```

```tsx title="main.tsx"
import "./index.css";

import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { Web3AuthProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react";
import web3AuthContextConfig from "./web3authContext";
// focus-start
import { WagmiProvider } from "@web3auth/modal/react/wagmi";
import { QueryClient, QueryClientProvider } from "@tanstack/react-query";
// focus-end

import App from "./App";

// focus-next-line
const queryClient = new QueryClient();

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root") as HTMLElement).render(
  <Web3AuthProvider config={web3AuthContextConfig}>
    {/* focus-start */}
    <QueryClientProvider client={queryClient}>
      <WagmiProvider>
        <App />
      </WagmiProvider>
    </QueryClientProvider>
    {/* focus-end */}
  </Web3AuthProvider>,
);
```

:::info

Wagmi provides a comprehensive set of React hooks for Ethereum and EVM-compatible chains. Embedded Wallets
integrates seamlessly with Wagmi, so you can use hooks like `useAccount`, `useBalance`,
`useSendTransaction`, and more, out of the box.

:::

Below are some examples of using Wagmi hooks in your dapp after Embedded Wallets and Wagmi are set up. You
can note these functions work directly with Wagmi. Once you have set up Wagmi with Embedded Wallets, you can
use any Wagmi hook as you would in a standard Wagmi application.

### Get account balance

```tsx
import { useAccount, useBalance } from "wagmi";
import { formatUnits } from "viem";

export function Balance() {
  const { address } = useAccount();
  const { data, isLoading, error } = useBalance({ address });

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Balance</h2>
      <div>
        {data?.value !== undefined && `${formatUnits(data.value, data.decimals)} ${data.symbol}`}{" "}
        {isLoading && "Loading..."} {error && "Error: " + error.message}
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Send transaction

```tsx
import { FormEvent } from "react";
import { useWaitForTransactionReceipt, useSendTransaction, BaseError } from "wagmi";
import { Hex, parseEther } from "viem";

export function SendTransaction() {
  const { data: hash, error, isPending, sendTransaction } = useSendTransaction();

  async function submit(e: FormEvent<HTMLFormElement>) {
    e.preventDefault();
    const formData = new FormData(e.target as HTMLFormElement);
    const to = formData.get("address") as Hex;
    const value = formData.get("value") as string;
    sendTransaction({ to, value: parseEther(value) });
  }

  const { isLoading: isConfirming, isSuccess: isConfirmed } = useWaitForTransactionReceipt({
    hash,
  });

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Send Transaction</h2>
      <form onSubmit={submit}>
        <input name="address" placeholder="Address" required />
        <input name="value" placeholder="Amount (ETH)" type="number" step="0.000000001" required />
        <button disabled={isPending} type="submit">
          {isPending ? "Confirming..." : "Send"}
        </button>
      </form>
      {hash && <div>Transaction Hash: {hash}</div>}
      {isConfirming && "Waiting for confirmation..."}
      {isConfirmed && "Transaction confirmed."}
      {error && <div>Error: {(error as BaseError).shortMessage || error.message}</div>}
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Switch chain

```tsx
import { useChainId, useSwitchChain } from "wagmi";

export function SwitchChain() {
  const chainId = useChainId();
  const { chains, switchChain, error } = useSwitchChain();

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Switch Chain</h2>
      <h3>Connected to {chainId}</h3>
      {chains.map((chain) => (
        <button
          disabled={chainId === chain.id}
          key={chain.id}
          onClick={() => switchChain({ chainId: chain.id })}
          type="button"
          className="card"
        >
          {chain.name}
        </button>
      ))}
      {error?.message}
    </div>
  );
}
```
