embedded-wallets/sdk/react/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Embedded Wallets SDK for React
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK for React | Documentation'
---

import ExampleCards from '@theme/ExampleCards'
import { webExamples, QUICK_START } from '@site/src/utils/example-maps'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import SdkTroubleshootingIntro from '../_common/_sdk-troubleshooting-intro.mdx'

## Overview

MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play/ W3A PnP) provides a seamless authentication experience for React applications with social logins, external wallets, and more. Using our React Hooks, you can easily connect users to their preferred wallets and manage authentication state.

## Requirements

- This is a frontend SDK and must be used in a browser environment.
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript and React.

## Installation

Install the Web3Auth Modal SDK using npm or yarn:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save @web3auth/modal
```

## Setup

:::info

Prerequisites Before you start, make sure you have registered on the [**Web3Auth Dashboard**](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/) and have set up your project. You can look into the [Dashboard Setup](../../dashboard/README.mdx) guide to learn more.

:::

### 1. Configuration

Create a configuration file for Web3Auth. This file will contain your Web3Auth Client ID and Network details from the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/).

```tsx title="web3authContext.tsx"
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, type Web3AuthOptions } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
}

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions,
}

export default web3AuthContextConfig
```

### 2. Setup Web3Auth Provider

In your main entry file (generally `index.tsx` or `main.tsx`), import the `Web3AuthProvider` component and wrap your application with it:

```tsx title="main.tsx"
import './index.css'

import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client'
// focus-start
import { Web3AuthProvider } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import web3AuthContextConfig from './web3authContext'
// focus-end
import App from './App'

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root') as HTMLElement).render(
  // focus-start
  <Web3AuthProvider config={web3AuthContextConfig}>
    <App />
  </Web3AuthProvider>
  // focus-end
)
```

## Advanced Configuration

The Web3Auth Modal SDK offers a rich set of advanced configuration options:

- **[Smart Accounts](./advanced/smart-accounts.mdx)**: Configure account abstraction parameters.
- **[Custom Authentication](./advanced/custom-authentication.mdx)**: Define authentication methods.
- **[Whitelabeling & UI Customization](./advanced/whitelabel.mdx)**: Personalize the modal's appearance.
- **[Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)](./advanced/mfa.mdx)**: Set up and manage MFA.
- **[Wallet Services](./advanced/wallet-services.mdx)**: Integrate additional wallet services.

:::tip

Head over to the [**Advanced Configuration**](./advanced/README.mdx) section to learn more about each configuration option.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic-config"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Configuration", value: "basic-config" },
    { label: "Advanced Configuration", value: "advanced-config" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic-config">

```ts
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, type Web3AuthOptions } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
}

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions,
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced-config">

```ts
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import {
  WALLET_CONNECTORS,
  WEB3AUTH_NETWORK,
  MFA_LEVELS,
  type Web3AuthOptions,
} from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  modalConfig: {
    connectors: {
      [WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH]: {
        label: 'auth',
        loginMethods: {
          google: {
            name: 'google login',
            // logoDark: "url to your custom logo which will shown in dark mode",
          },
          facebook: {
            name: 'facebook login',
            showOnModal: false, // hides the facebook option
          },
          email_passwordless: {
            name: 'email passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-email_passwordless-demo',
          },
          sms_passwordless: {
            name: 'sms passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-sms_passwordless-demo',
          },
        },
        showOnModal: true, // set to false to hide all social login methods
      },
    },
    hideWalletDiscovery: true, // set to true to hide external wallets discovery
  },
  mfaLevel: MFA_LEVELS.MANDATORY,
}

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions,
}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Blockchain Integration

Web3Auth is blockchain agnostic, enabling integration with any blockchain network. Out of the box, Web3Auth offers robust support for both **Solana** and **Ethereum**, each with dedicated React hooks.

### Solana Integration

Solana hooks are included natively within the `@web3auth/modal` package. No additional setup is required—simply use the provided hooks to interact with Solana networks.

For detailed usage and examples, visit the [**Solana Hooks**](./solana-hooks/README.mdx) section.

### Ethereum Integration

Ethereum hooks are provided through the popular `wagmi` library, which works seamlessly with Web3Auth. This allows you to leverage a wide range of Ethereum hooks for account management, transactions, and more.

For implementation details and examples, refer to the [**Ethereum Hooks**](./ethereum-hooks.mdx) section.

<SdkTroubleshootingIntro />

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/react/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Embedded Wallets SDK for React
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK for React | Web3Auth Plug and Play for React'
---

import ExampleCards from '@theme/ExampleCards'
import { webExamples, QUICK_START } from '@site/src/utils/example-maps'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import SdkTroubleshootingIntro from '../_common/_sdk-troubleshooting-intro.mdx'

## Overview

MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play) provides a seamless authentication experience for React applications with social logins, external wallets, and more. Our React Hooks simplifies how you connect users to their preferred wallets and manage authentication state.

## Requirements

- This is a frontend SDK and must be used in a browser environment.
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript and React.

## Prerequisites

- Set up your project on the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/)

:::tip

See the [dashboard setup](../../dashboard/README.mdx) guide to learn more.

:::

## Installation

Install the Web3Auth Modal SDK using npm or yarn:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save @web3auth/modal
```

### 1. Configuration

Create a configuration file for Web3Auth. This file will contain your Web3Auth Client ID and Network details from the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/).

```tsx title="web3authContext.tsx"
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, type Web3AuthOptions } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
}

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions,
}

export default web3AuthContextConfig
```

### 2. Setup Web3Auth provider

In your main entry file (generally `index.tsx` or `main.tsx`), import the `Web3AuthProvider` component and wrap your application with it:

```tsx title="main.tsx"
import './index.css'

import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client'
// focus-start
import { Web3AuthProvider } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import web3AuthContextConfig from './web3authContext'
// focus-end
import App from './App'

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root') as HTMLElement).render(
  // focus-start
  <Web3AuthProvider config={web3AuthContextConfig}>
    <App />
  </Web3AuthProvider>
  // focus-end
)
```

## Advanced configuration

The Web3Auth Modal SDK offers a rich set of advanced configuration options:

- **[Smart accounts](./advanced/smart-accounts.mdx):** Configure account abstraction parameters.
- **[Custom authentication](./advanced/custom-authentication.mdx):** Define authentication methods.
- **[Whitelabeling and UI customization](./advanced/whitelabel.mdx):** Personalize the modal's appearance.
- **[Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)](./advanced/mfa.mdx):** Set up and manage MFA.
- **[Wallet Services](./advanced/wallet-services.mdx):** Integrate additional Wallet Services.

:::tip

See the [advanced configuration](./advanced/README.mdx) section to learn more about each configuration option.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic-config"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Configuration", value: "basic-config" },
    { label: "Advanced Configuration", value: "advanced-config" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic-config">

```ts
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, type Web3AuthOptions } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
}

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions,
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced-config">

```ts
import { type Web3AuthContextConfig } from '@web3auth/modal/react'
import {
  WALLET_CONNECTORS,
  WEB3AUTH_NETWORK,
  MFA_LEVELS,
  type Web3AuthOptions,
} from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
  clientId: 'YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID', // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  modalConfig: {
    connectors: {
      [WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH]: {
        label: 'auth',
        loginMethods: {
          google: {
            name: 'google login',
            // logoDark: "url to your custom logo which will shown in dark mode",
          },
          facebook: {
            name: 'facebook login',
            showOnModal: false, // hides the facebook option
          },
          email_passwordless: {
            name: 'email passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-email_passwordless-demo',
          },
          sms_passwordless: {
            name: 'sms passwordless login',
            showOnModal: true,
            authConnectionId: 'w3a-sms_passwordless-demo',
          },
        },
        showOnModal: true, // set to false to hide all social login methods
      },
    },
    hideWalletDiscovery: true, // set to true to hide external wallets discovery
  },
  mfaLevel: MFA_LEVELS.MANDATORY,
}

const web3AuthContextConfig: Web3AuthContextConfig = {
  web3AuthOptions,
}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Blockchain integration

Web3Auth is blockchain agnostic, enabling integration with any blockchain network. Out of the box, Web3Auth offers robust support for both **Solana** and **Ethereum**, each with dedicated React hooks.

### Solana integration

Solana hooks are included natively within the `@web3auth/modal` package. No additional setup is required—simply use the provided hooks to interact with Solana networks.

For detailed usage and examples, see the [**Solana hooks**](./solana-hooks/README.mdx) section.

### Ethereum integration

Ethereum hooks are provided through the popular `wagmi` library, which works seamlessly with Web3Auth. This allows you to leverage a wide range of Ethereum hooks for account management, transactions, and more.

For implementation details and examples, refer to the [**Ethereum Hooks**](./ethereum-hooks.mdx) section.

<SdkTroubleshootingIntro />
