services/reference/blast/index.md, before:

---
description: Blast network documentation.
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# Blast

:::note Decentralized Infrastructure Network (DIN)

Blast is supported through the [DIN](https://www.infura.io/solutions/decentralized-infrastructure-service) service,
meaning calls to the network are routed to [partner infrastructure providers](#partners-and-privacy-policies).

:::

Blast is an Ethereum layer 2 (L2) scaling solution that uses an optimistic rollup architecture, providing a
familiar experience for Ethereum users and developers.

Blast aims to provide native yield for ETH and stablecoins. Additionally, Blast shares gas revenue with decentralized
applications (dapps), allowing developers to subsidize gas fees for users or keep the revenue for themselves.

:::info See also

See also the [official Blast documentation](https://docs.blast.io/about-blast) for more information.

:::


Select one of the following options to get started with the Blast network:

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the Blast network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the Blast network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key and secure and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>

## Partners and privacy policies

The following partners provide access to the Blast network:

- Nodies DLB ([Terms of Use](https://www.nodies.app/tos.txt), [Privacy Policy](https://www.nodies.app/privacy.txt))
- Laconic LLC ([Privacy Policy](https://www.laconic.com/privacy-policy))

Commit message:

Blast, Mantle, and ZKsync - open beta message. (#1379)
* Blast is public beta.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Update services/reference/blast/index.md

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update blast message

* Add note for Mantle

* update note for ZKsync

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>
Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Joan E <153745173+joaniefromtheblock@users.noreply.github.com>

services/reference/blast/index.md, after:

---
description: Blast network documentation.
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# Blast

:::note Decentralized Infrastructure Network (DIN)

Blast is supported through the [DIN](https://www.infura.io/solutions/decentralized-infrastructure-service) service,
meaning calls to the network are routed to [partner infrastructure providers](#partners-and-privacy-policies).

Infura provides Open Beta access to Blast. During this period, there might be feature limitations. Performance issues are not expected, but they are possible as we optimize and stabilize the service.

:::

Blast is an Ethereum layer 2 (L2) scaling solution that uses an optimistic rollup architecture, providing a
familiar experience for Ethereum users and developers.

Blast aims to provide native yield for ETH and stablecoins. Additionally, Blast shares gas revenue with decentralized
applications (dapps), allowing developers to subsidize gas fees for users or keep the revenue for themselves.

:::info See also

See also the [official Blast documentation](https://docs.blast.io/about-blast) for more information.

:::


Select one of the following options to get started with the Blast network:

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the Blast network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the Blast network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key and secure and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>

## Partners and privacy policies

The following partners provide access to the Blast network:

- Nodies DLB ([Terms of Use](https://www.nodies.app/tos.txt), [Privacy Policy](https://www.nodies.app/privacy.txt))
- Laconic LLC ([Privacy Policy](https://www.laconic.com/privacy-policy))
