embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/astar-zkevm/flutter.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Astar zkEVM Blockchain in Flutter
sidebar_label: Flutter
image: 'img/embedded-wallets/banners/zkevm.png'

keywords: [flutter, zkevm, astar, web3auth, authentication, blockchain]
description: 'Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Astar zkEVM Blockchain in Flutter | Embedded Wallets'
---

import EVMInteraction from '../../_flutter-connect-blockchain/_evm-interaction.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

While using the Embedded Wallets Mobile SDKs (formerly Web3Auth) in Flutter, the private key is available in the SDK state after authorization. Use it to derive the user's address and interact with the [Astar zkEVM](https://docs.astar.network/docs/build/zkEVM/) network for signing and JSON-RPC calls.

::::note

The SDKs are now branded as MetaMask Embedded Wallet SDKs (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play SDKs). Package names and APIs remain Web3Auth (for example, Web3Auth React SDK), and code snippets may reference `web3auth` identifiers.

::::

<EVMInteraction />

Commit message:

Restructure Embedded Wallets Docs (#2399)
* reshuffle evm chains

* Add node for evm chains

* Change help link

* Change home hero section

* Update sub nav bar

* Update connect blockchain section

* Fix node logo issues

* fix duplication errors

* fix broken links

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/astar-zkevm/flutter.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Astar zkEVM Blockchain in Flutter
sidebar_label: Flutter
image: 'img/embedded-wallets/banners/astar-zkevm.png'

keywords: [flutter, astar-zkevm, web3auth, authentication, blockchain]
description: 'Integrate Embedded Wallets with the Astar zkEVM Blockchain in Flutter | Embedded Wallets'
---

import EVMInteraction from '../../_flutter-connect-blockchain/_evm-interaction.mdx'
import ChainDetailsAstarZkevm from '../../_general-connect-blockchain/_astar-zkevm.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

While using the Embedded Wallets Flutter SDK, you get the private key within the user scope after successful authorization. This private key can be used to retrieve the user's address, and interact with [Astar zkEVM](https://ethereum.org/) to make any blockchain calls. We have highlighted a few here for getting you started quickly on that.

## Chain Details for Astar zkEVM

<ChainDetailsAstarZkevm />

<EVMInteraction />
