services/reference/linea/json-rpc-methods/linea_estimategas.mdx, before:

---
title: linea_estimateGas
sidebar_label: linea_estimateGas
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `linea_estimateGas`

Generates and returns the estimated amount of gas required to allow the transaction to complete and be
published on Ethereum. The method does not submit the transaction to the blockchain.

The `priorityFeePerGas` returned by this method includes the cost of submitting the transaction to Ethereum, which
can vary based on the size of the `calldata`.

:::info

For more information about estimating gas, and how this API formulates the transaction costs, see the
[Linea gas fees documentation](https://docs.linea.build/build-on-linea/gas-fees).

:::

:::note

`linea_estimateGas` uses the same inputs as the standard [`eth_estimateGas`](https://docs.infura.io/api/networks/linea/json-rpc-methods/eth_estimategas),
but returns the recommended gas limit, the base fee per gas, and the priority fee per gas.
We recommend using `linea_estimateGas` for more accurate results.

:::

## Parameters

- `call`: _\[required]_ Transaction call object:
  - `from`: _\[optional]_ 20 bytes - The address the transaction is sent from.
  - `to`: _\[optional]_ 20 bytes - The address the transaction is directed to.
  - `gas`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the gas provided for the transaction execution. `linea_estimateGas` consumes
      zero gas, but this parameter may be needed by some executions.
  - `gasPrice`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the gas price used for each paid gas.
  - `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: _\[optional]_ Maximum fee, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas above the base fee.
  - `maxFeePerGas`: _\[optional]_ Maximum total fee (base fee + priority fee), in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas.
  - `value`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the value sent with this transaction.
  - `data`: _\[optional]_ Hash of the method signature and encoded parameters. See the
      [Ethereum contract ABI specification](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/abi-spec.html).
- `stateOverride`: _\[optional]_  Object that contains the address-to-state mapping to [override state values](#override-state-values).
    Each entry specifies a state that will be temporarily overridden before executing the call:
  - `balance`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the temporary account balance for the call execution.
  - `nonce`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the temporary nonce for the call execution.
  - `code` : _\[optional]_ Bytecode to inject into the account.
  - `stateDiff`: `key:value` pairs to override individual slots in the account storage.

## Returns

Hexadecimal values representing the recommended gas limit, the base fee per gas, and the priority fee per gas.

## Example

Replace `<YOUR-API-KEY>` with an API key from your [MetaMask Developer dashboard](https://developer.metamask.io/).

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="curl">

  ```bash
  curl https://linea-mainnet.infura.io/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"linea_estimateGas","params":[{"from":"0x42c27251C710864Cf76f1b9918Ace3E585e6E21b","value":"0x1","gasPrice":"0x100000000","gas":"0x21000"}],"id":53}'
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="WSS">

  ```bash
  wscat -c wss://linea-mainnet.infura.io/ws/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> -x '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"linea_estimateGas","params":[{"from":"0x42c27251C710864Cf76f1b9918Ace3E585e6E21b","value":"0x1","gasPrice":"0x100000000","gas":"0x21000"}],"id":53}'
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">

```JSON
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 53,
  "result": {
    "baseFeePerGas": "0x7",
    "gasLimit": "0xcf08",
    "priorityFeePerGas": "0x43a82a4"
  }
}
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Override state values

You can override an account with temporary state values before making the call. This allows you to
make temporary state changes without affecting the actual blockchain state.

The following example estimates the cost for transferring an ERC-20 token for an account which does not
have the required assets onchain.

The example sets a custom ETH balance for the sender (to cover gas costs) and modifies the account's
balance within the ERC-20 contract's storage for the duration of the call.

```json
curl https://linea-mainnet.infura.io/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> \
-X POST \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
  "jsonrpc":"2.0",
  "method":"linea_estimateGas",
  "params":[
    {
      "from":"0xfe3b557e8fb62b89f4916b721be55ceb828dbd73",
      "to":"0xe5D7C2a44FfDDf6b295A15c148167daaAf5Cf34f",
      "data":"0xa9059cbb000000000000000000000000627306090abaB3A6e1400e9345bC60c78a8BEf570000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001bc16d674ec80000"
    },
    {
      "0xfe3b557e8fb62b89f4916b721be55ceb828dbd73": {
        "balance": "0x16345785d8a0000"
      },
      "0xe5D7C2a44FfDDf6b295A15c148167daaAf5Cf34f": {
        "stateDiff": {
          "0x2d206e5210c119b1cbed144f517f1f1dfd586eed26793a233e6afc261f4cf97f":"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001bc16d674ec80000"
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "id":53
}'
```

Commit message:

Add credit cost information (#2081)
* Add automated CC tables and pricing content.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add initial component,

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add EVM method info.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add initial method.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add debug methods.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add debug methods.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Fix links.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add Gas API.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Update services/get-started/pricing/credit-cost.mdx

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/components/CreditCost/CreditCostPrice.js

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update wording.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

---------

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>
Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

services/reference/linea/json-rpc-methods/linea_estimategas.mdx, after:

---
title: linea_estimateGas
sidebar_label: linea_estimateGas
---

import CreditCost from '@site/src/components/CreditCost/CreditCostPrice.js';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `linea_estimateGas`

Generates and returns the estimated amount of gas required to allow the transaction to complete and be
published on Ethereum. The method does not submit the transaction to the blockchain. <CreditCost network="linea" method="linea_estimateGas" />

The `priorityFeePerGas` returned by this method includes the cost of submitting the transaction to Ethereum, which
can vary based on the size of the `calldata`.

:::info

For more information about estimating gas, and how this API formulates the transaction costs, see the
[Linea gas fees documentation](https://docs.linea.build/build-on-linea/gas-fees).

:::

:::note

`linea_estimateGas` uses the same inputs as the standard [`eth_estimateGas`](https://docs.infura.io/api/networks/linea/json-rpc-methods/eth_estimategas),
but returns the recommended gas limit, the base fee per gas, and the priority fee per gas.
We recommend using `linea_estimateGas` for more accurate results.

:::

## Parameters

- `call`: _\[required]_ Transaction call object:
  - `from`: _\[optional]_ 20 bytes - The address the transaction is sent from.
  - `to`: _\[optional]_ 20 bytes - The address the transaction is directed to.
  - `gas`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the gas provided for the transaction execution. `linea_estimateGas` consumes
      zero gas, but this parameter may be needed by some executions.
  - `gasPrice`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the gas price used for each paid gas.
  - `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: _\[optional]_ Maximum fee, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas above the base fee.
  - `maxFeePerGas`: _\[optional]_ Maximum total fee (base fee + priority fee), in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas.
  - `value`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the value sent with this transaction.
  - `data`: _\[optional]_ Hash of the method signature and encoded parameters. See the
      [Ethereum contract ABI specification](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/abi-spec.html).
- `stateOverride`: _\[optional]_  Object that contains the address-to-state mapping to [override state values](#override-state-values).
    Each entry specifies a state that will be temporarily overridden before executing the call:
  - `balance`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the temporary account balance for the call execution.
  - `nonce`: _\[optional]_ Hexadecimal value of the temporary nonce for the call execution.
  - `code` : _\[optional]_ Bytecode to inject into the account.
  - `stateDiff`: `key:value` pairs to override individual slots in the account storage.

## Returns

Hexadecimal values representing the recommended gas limit, the base fee per gas, and the priority fee per gas.

## Example

Replace `<YOUR-API-KEY>` with an API key from your [MetaMask Developer dashboard](https://developer.metamask.io/).

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="curl">

  ```bash
  curl https://linea-mainnet.infura.io/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"linea_estimateGas","params":[{"from":"0x42c27251C710864Cf76f1b9918Ace3E585e6E21b","value":"0x1","gasPrice":"0x100000000","gas":"0x21000"}],"id":53}'
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="WSS">

  ```bash
  wscat -c wss://linea-mainnet.infura.io/ws/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> -x '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"linea_estimateGas","params":[{"from":"0x42c27251C710864Cf76f1b9918Ace3E585e6E21b","value":"0x1","gasPrice":"0x100000000","gas":"0x21000"}],"id":53}'
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">

```JSON
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 53,
  "result": {
    "baseFeePerGas": "0x7",
    "gasLimit": "0xcf08",
    "priorityFeePerGas": "0x43a82a4"
  }
}
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Override state values

You can override an account with temporary state values before making the call. This allows you to
make temporary state changes without affecting the actual blockchain state.

The following example estimates the cost for transferring an ERC-20 token for an account which does not
have the required assets onchain.

The example sets a custom ETH balance for the sender (to cover gas costs) and modifies the account's
balance within the ERC-20 contract's storage for the duration of the call.

```json
curl https://linea-mainnet.infura.io/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> \
-X POST \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{
  "jsonrpc":"2.0",
  "method":"linea_estimateGas",
  "params":[
    {
      "from":"0xfe3b557e8fb62b89f4916b721be55ceb828dbd73",
      "to":"0xe5D7C2a44FfDDf6b295A15c148167daaAf5Cf34f",
      "data":"0xa9059cbb000000000000000000000000627306090abaB3A6e1400e9345bC60c78a8BEf570000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001bc16d674ec80000"
    },
    {
      "0xfe3b557e8fb62b89f4916b721be55ceb828dbd73": {
        "balance": "0x16345785d8a0000"
      },
      "0xe5D7C2a44FfDDf6b295A15c148167daaAf5Cf34f": {
        "stateDiff": {
          "0x2d206e5210c119b1cbed144f517f1f1dfd586eed26793a233e6afc261f4cf97f":"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001bc16d674ec80000"
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "id":53
}'
```
