services/reference/polygon-pos/index.md, before:

---
description: Polygon network information.
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# Polygon PoS

:::note Failover protection

[Failover protection](../../concepts/failover-protection.md) is available on the Polygon network for customers on the Growth or Custom plans.
Calls to the network are routed to [partner infrastructure providers](#partners-and-privacy-policies).

:::

The Polygon PoS network is a hybrid Plasma Proof of Stake side-chain to Ethereum. It's fully compatible with the Ethereum
virtual machine (EVM) which allows developers to leverage Infura, MetaMask, and other tools they use for Ethereum when
developing and deploying smart contracts to the Polygon network.

The Polygon Bor node API is based on geth's JSON-RPC implementation, you can also use WebSockets to call JSON-RPCs
and [create subscriptions](../../how-to/subscribe-to-events.md).

:::info see also

The [official Polygon documentation](https://docs.polygon.technology) for more information about using the Polygon network.

:::

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the Polygon network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the Polygon network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key and secure and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>

## Partners and privacy policies

No personal information is sent as part of partner requests, only information necessary to fulfill your API request. This means that Infura's partner service provider can service your request, but not store the content of your request.

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->

Rivet.cloud ([Terms of Service](https://rivet.cloud/terms), [Privacy Policy](https://rivet.cloud/privacy-policy)) is Infura's failover-protection partner. While Rivet.cloud supports most Infura methods,
it does not yet support the following methods:

<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

- `eth_accounts`
- `eth_coinbase`
- `eth_getRootHash`
- `eth_getUncleByBlockNumberAndIndex`
- `eth_getWork`
- `eth_hashrate`
- `eth_mining`
- `eth_sendTransaction`
- `eth_sign`

Commit message:

Update partner info.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

services/reference/polygon-pos/index.md, after:

---
description: Polygon network information.
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# Polygon PoS

:::note Failover protection

[Failover protection](../../concepts/failover-protection.md) is available on the Polygon network for customers on the Growth or Custom plans.
Calls to the network are routed to [partner infrastructure providers](#partners-and-privacy-policies).

:::

The Polygon PoS network is a hybrid Plasma Proof of Stake side-chain to Ethereum. It's fully compatible with the Ethereum
virtual machine (EVM) which allows developers to leverage Infura, MetaMask, and other tools they use for Ethereum when
developing and deploying smart contracts to the Polygon network.

The Polygon Bor node API is based on geth's JSON-RPC implementation, you can also use WebSockets to call JSON-RPCs
and [create subscriptions](../../how-to/subscribe-to-events.md).

:::info see also

The [official Polygon documentation](https://docs.polygon.technology) for more information about using the Polygon network.

:::

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the Polygon network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the Polygon network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key and secure and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>

## Partners and privacy policies

No personal information is sent as part of partner requests, only information necessary to fulfill your API request. This means that Infura's partner service provider can service your request, but not store the content of your request.

The following partners provide failover support:

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
- Infstones ([Privacy Policy](https://infstones.com/terms/privacy-notice))
- Bware Labs ([Terms of Use](https://bwarelabs.com/terms), [Privacy Policy](https://bwarelabs.com/privacy))
- Rivet.cloud ([Terms of Service](https://rivet.cloud/terms), [Privacy Policy](https://rivet.cloud/privacy-policy))
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

While Rivet.cloud supports most Infura methods, it does not yet support the following methods:

- `eth_accounts`
- `eth_coinbase`
- `eth_getRootHash`
- `eth_getUncleByBlockNumberAndIndex`
- `eth_getWork`
- `eth_hashrate`
- `eth_mining`
- `eth_sendTransaction`
- `eth_sign`
