services/reference/ethereum/index.md, before:

---
description: Ethereum network information.
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# Ethereum

Ethereum is a decentralized, open-source blockchain network with [Turing-complete](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_completeness)
smart contract functionality. Ether (ETH) is the native cryptocurrency.

Use Ethereum to build apps and organizations, hold assets, transact, and communicate without being controlled by a
central authority. Ethereum uses the [Proof of Stake (PoS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_of_stake) consensus mechanism.

Infura provides access to the [Ethereum JSON-RPC API](json-rpc-methods/index.md) method library that interacts with the
Ethereum blockchain. Methods include functionality for reading and writing data to the network, and executing smart contracts.

:::info See also

The [official Ethereum documentation](https://ethereum.org/en/) for more information.

:::

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the Ethereum network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the Ethereum network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key and secure and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

Add hoodi support.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

services/reference/ethereum/index.md, after:

---
description: Ethereum network information.
---

import CardList from '@site/src/components/CardList'

# Ethereum

:::warning Holesky deprecation
The Holesky testnet will be deprecated from the Infura service on May 1, 2025.
Switch to the Hoodi testnet, now available on Infura via
[Decentralized Infrastructure Network (DIN)](https://www.infura.io/solutions/decentralized-infrastructure-service).
:::

Ethereum is a decentralized, open-source blockchain network with [Turing-complete](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_completeness)
smart contract functionality. Ether (ETH) is the native cryptocurrency.

Use Ethereum to build apps and organizations, hold assets, transact, and communicate without being controlled by a
central authority. Ethereum uses the [Proof of Stake (PoS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_of_stake) consensus mechanism.

Infura provides access to the [Ethereum JSON-RPC API](json-rpc-methods/index.md) method library that interacts with the
Ethereum blockchain. Methods include functionality for reading and writing data to the network, and executing smart contracts.

:::info See also

The [official Ethereum documentation](https://ethereum.org/en/) for more information.

:::

<CardList
  items={[
    {
      href: "quickstart",
      title: "Quickstart",
      description: "Learn how to quickly connect and make calls to the Ethereum network."
    },
    {
      href: "json-rpc-methods",
      title: "JSON-RPC APIs",
      description: "View the APIs available for communicating with the Ethereum network."
    },
    {
      href: "../../../developer-tools/dashboard/get-started/create-api/",
      title: "Create an API key",
      description: "Learn how to create an API key and secure and share it with your team."
    }
  ]}
/>
