wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: Use the SDK in your dapp.
tags:
  - JavaScript SDK
  - iOS SDK
  - Android SDK
  - Unity SDK
---

# MetaMask SDK

MetaMask SDK is a library that provides a reliable, secure, and seamless connection from your dapp
to the MetaMask browser extension and MetaMask Mobile.
You can install the SDK in existing dapps, and call any [Wallet API](../../concepts/wallet-api.md) methods from
your dapp.

The SDK supports the following dapp platforms:

<div class="cards">
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card__header">
      <h3>💻 <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript">JavaScript</a></h3>
    </div>
    <div class="card__body">
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/react">React</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/pure-js">Pure JavaScript</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/other-web-frameworks">Other web frameworks</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/nodejs">Node.js</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/electron">Electron</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card__header">
      <h3>📱 <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile">Mobile</a></h3>
    </div>
    <div class="card__body">
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile/ios">iOS</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile/android">Android</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile/react-native">React Native</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card__header">
      <h3>🎮 <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/gaming">Gaming</a></h3>
    </div>
    <div class="card__body">
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/gaming/unity">Unity</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/gaming/unreal-engine">Unreal Engine</a> (coming soon)</li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="card margin-bottom--lg">
  <div class="card__header">
    <h3>↔️ <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/3rd-party-libraries">Third-party libraries</a></h3>
  </div>
  <div class="card__body">
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/wallet/connect/3rd-party-libraries/wagmi">Wagmi</a></li>
      <li><a href="/wallet/connect/3rd-party-libraries/web3-onboard">Web3-Onboard</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

Commit message:

Update MetaMask SDK page with more succinct and useful information before going deeper into each SDK option.

wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: Use the SDK in your dapp.
tags:
  - JavaScript SDK
  - iOS SDK
  - Android SDK
  - Unity SDK
---

# MetaMask SDK

The **MetaMask SDK** provides a reliable, secure, and seamless connection between your dapp and MetaMask (Extension and Mobile). It supports multiple platforms, ensuring flexibility for your integration needs.

Key features include:

- **Multi-platform support** – Connect from web, desktop, mobile, or gaming platforms.
- **Seamless mobile integration** – Use QR codes or deep links to create persistent connections with MetaMask Mobile.
- **RPC request batching** – Enhance efficiency by batching multiple requests into a single call.
- **EIP-6963 detection** – Automatically detect MetaMask wallets with or without third-party libraries.

Explore detailed guides for each platform:

<div class="cards">
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card__header">
      <h3>💻 <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript">JavaScript</a></h3>
    </div>
    <div class="card__body">
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/react">React</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/pure-js">Pure JavaScript</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/other-web-frameworks">Other web frameworks</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/nodejs">Node.js</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/electron">Electron</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card__header">
      <h3>📱 <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile">Mobile</a></h3>
    </div>
    <div class="card__body">
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile/ios">iOS</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile/android">Android</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/mobile/react-native">React Native</a></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="card">
    <div class="card__header">
      <h3>🎮 <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/gaming">Gaming</a></h3>
    </div>
    <div class="card__body">
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/gaming/unity">Unity</a></li>
        <li><a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/gaming/unreal-engine">Unreal Engine</a> (coming soon)</li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="card margin-bottom--lg">
  <div class="card__header">
    <h3>↔️ <a href="/wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/3rd-party-libraries">Third-party libraries</a></h3>
  </div>
  <div class="card__body">
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/wallet/connect/3rd-party-libraries/wagmi">Wagmi</a></li>
      <li><a href="/wallet/connect/3rd-party-libraries/web3-onboard">Web3-Onboard</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
