embedded-wallets/sdk/unity/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Embedded Wallets SDK for Unity
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK for Unity | Documentation'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

## Overview

MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play/ W3A PnP) provides a seamless authentication experience for Unity game applications with social logins, external wallets, and more. Using our Unity SDK written in C#, you can easily connect users to their preferred wallets and manage authentication state across all mobile platforms.

## Requirements

- Unity Editor 2019.4.9f1 or greater
- .Net Framework 4.x
- iOS Platform Target Version 14 and above
- Android Target SDK Version 24 and above
- Basic knowledge of C# and Unity Development

## Installation

Install the Web3Auth Unity SDK using one of the following methods:

### Download Unity Package

Download the [.unitypackage](https://github.com/Web3Auth/web3auth-unity-sdk/releases/latest) from our latest release and import the package file into your existing Unity3D project.

:::warning

You may encounter errors when importing this package into your existing project.

`The type or namespace name 'Newtonsoft' could not be found (are you missing a using directive or an assembly reference?)`

To fix this problem you need to add the following line into the dependencies object which is inside the `Packages/manifest.json` file.

```json title="/Packages/manifest.json"
"com.unity.nuget.newtonsoft-json": "3.2.1"
```

:::

## Setup

:::info

Prerequisites Before you start, make sure you have registered on the [**Web3Auth Dashboard**](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/) and have set up your project. You can look into the [Dashboard Setup](../../dashboard/README.mdx) guide to learn more.

:::

### Configure Web3Auth Project

- Go to [Developer Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/), create or select an Web3Auth project:
- Add `{{SCHEMA}}://{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/auth` to **Allowlist URLs**.
- Copy the `Client ID` for usage later.

## Initialize Web3Auth

### 1. Create Web3Auth Instance

Attach a `Web3Auth.cs` script to your game object where you want to write your authentication code:

```cs title="/Assets/Web3Auth.cs"
using System;
using System.Linq;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.UI;
using Newtonsoft.Json;

public class Web3Auth : MonoBehaviour
{
  // Start is called before the first frame update
  void Start() {}
  public void login() {}
  private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response) {}
  public void logout() {}
  private void onLogout() {}
}
```

Within your script, import the `Web3Auth` component in your class:

```cs
Web3Auth web3Auth;
```

Create an instance within your `Start()` function by creating an instance of the component you just imported:

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();
```

### 2. Configure Web3Auth Options

After instantiation, within your `Start()` function, set up the Web3Auth Options:

```cs
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
```

### 3. Setup Event Handlers

Set up event handlers for login and logout events:

```cs
void Start()
{
    web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();
    web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions()
    {
        clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
        network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
        redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
    });

    // Set up event handlers
    web3Auth.onLogin += onLogin;
    web3Auth.onLogout += onLogout;
}

private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response)
{
    Debug.Log("Login successful!");
    Debug.Log("Private Key: " + response.privKey);
}

private void onLogout()
{
    Debug.Log("Logout successful!");
}
```

## Advanced Configuration

The Web3Auth Unity SDK offers a rich set of advanced configuration options:

- **[Custom Authentication](./advanced/custom-authentication.mdx)**: Define authentication methods.
- **[Whitelabeling & UI Customization](./advanced/whitelabel.mdx)**: Personalize the modal's appearance.
- **[Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)](./advanced/mfa.mdx)**: Set up and manage MFA.
- **[DApp Share](./advanced/dapp-share.mdx)**: Share DApp sessions across devices.

:::tip

Head over to the advanced configuration sections to learn more about each configuration option.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic-config"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Configuration", value: "basic-config" },
    { label: "Advanced Configuration", value: "advanced-config" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic-config">

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

//focus-start
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
//focus-end
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced-config">

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

var loginConfigItem = new LoginConfigItem()
    {
        verifier = "google-verifier", // Get this from the Web3Auth Dashboard
        typeOfLogin = TypeOfLogin.GOOGLE,
        clientId = "YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID" // Google's client ID
    };

//focus-start
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
    loginConfig = new Dictionary<string, LoginConfigItem>
    {
        {"google", loginConfigItem}
    }
    mfaSettings = new MfaSettings() {
        deviceShareFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 1
        },
        backUpShareFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 2
        },
        socialBackupFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 3
        },
        passwordFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 4
        }
    }
});
//focus-end
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Blockchain Integration

Web3Auth is blockchain agnostic, enabling integration with any blockchain network. We recommend using the **Nethereum Library** for Ethereum integration.

### Ethereum Integration

:::tip

We recommend you use the [Nethereum Library](https://docs.nethereum.com/en/latest/unity3d-introduction/) for making the blockchain calls. You can check our documentation on how to integrate Nethereum it with Web3Auth [here](../../connect-blockchain/evm/ethereum/unity.mdx).

:::

For Ethereum integration, you can get the private key and use it with Nethereum:

```cs
using Nethereum.Web3;
using Nethereum.Util;
using Nethereum.Signer;
using Nethereum.Hex.HexConvertors.Extensions;
using Nethereum.ABI.Encoders;
using Nethereum.Hex.HexTypes;
using Nethereum.Web3.Accounts;
using Nethereum.Web3.Accounts.Managed;

public class Web3AuthScript : MonoBehaviour
{
    Web3 web3;
    Web3Auth web3Auth;
    private string privateKey;
    private Account account;

    const string rpcURL = "" // EVM chain RPC URL

    void Start()
    {

      web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

      // Add Web3Auth Unity SDK Initialisation Code here

      web3Auth.onLogin += onLogin;
      web3Auth.onLogout += onLogout;
      web3 = new Web3(rpcURL);
    }

    private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response)
    {
        //focus-start
        // get the private key from web3auth response
        privateKey = response.privKey;
        // generate the user account
        var account = new Account(privateKey);
        // get the user address
        address = account.Address;

        // create the web3 instance
        web3 = new Web3("rpcURL");

        // get the user balance
        var balance = web3.Eth.GetBalance.SendRequestAsync(address).Result.Value;
        //focus-end
    }
// ...
}
```

### Solana Integration

For Solana integration, you can get the Ed25519 private key:

```cs
private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response)
{
    var ed25519PrivKey = response.ed25519PrivKey;
    // Use Ed25519 private key with Solana libraries
    Debug.Log("Solana Ed25519 Private Key: " + ed25519PrivKey);
}
```

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/unity/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Embedded Wallets SDK for Unity
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK for Unity | Web3Auth Plug and Play for Unity'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

## Overview

MetaMask Embedded Wallets SDK (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play) provides a seamless authentication experience for Unity game applications with social logins, external wallets, and more. Our Unity SDK, written in C#, simplifies how you connect users to their preferred wallets and manage authentication state across all mobile platforms.

## Requirements

- Unity Editor 2019.4.9f1 or greater
- .Net Framework 4.x
- iOS Platform Target Version 14 and above
- Android Target SDK Version 24 and above
- Basic knowledge of C# and Unity Development

## Prerequisites

- Set up your project on the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/)

:::tip

See the [dashboard setup](../../dashboard/README.mdx) guide to learn more.

:::

## Installation

Install the Web3Auth Unity SDK using one of the following methods:

### Download Unity package

Download the [.unitypackage](https://github.com/Web3Auth/web3auth-unity-sdk/releases/latest) from our latest release and import the package file into your existing Unity3D project.

:::warning

You may encounter errors when importing this package into your existing project.

`The type or namespace name 'Newtonsoft' could not be found (are you missing a using directive or an assembly reference?)`

To fix this problem you need to add the following line into the dependencies object which is inside the `Packages/manifest.json` file.

```json title="/Packages/manifest.json"
"com.unity.nuget.newtonsoft-json": "3.2.1"
```

:::

### Configure Web3Auth project

- From the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/), create or select an Web3Auth project:
- Add `{{SCHEMA}}://{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/auth` to **Allowlist URLs**.
- Copy the `Client ID` for usage later.

## Initialize Web3Auth

### 1. Create Web3Auth instance

Attach a `Web3Auth.cs` script to your game object where you want to write your authentication code:

```cs title="/Assets/Web3Auth.cs"
using System;
using System.Linq;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.UI;
using Newtonsoft.Json;

public class Web3Auth : MonoBehaviour
{
  // Start is called before the first frame update
  void Start() {}
  public void login() {}
  private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response) {}
  public void logout() {}
  private void onLogout() {}
}
```

Within your script, import the `Web3Auth` component in your class:

```cs
Web3Auth web3Auth;
```

Create an instance within your `Start()` function by creating an instance of the component you just imported:

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();
```

### 2. Configure Web3Auth options

After instantiation, within your `Start()` function, set up the Web3Auth Options:

```cs
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
```

### 3. Set up event handlers

Set up event handlers for login and logout events:

```cs
void Start()
{
    web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();
    web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions()
    {
        clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
        network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
        redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
    });

    // Set up event handlers
    web3Auth.onLogin += onLogin;
    web3Auth.onLogout += onLogout;
}

private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response)
{
    Debug.Log("Login successful!");
    Debug.Log("Private Key: " + response.privKey);
}

private void onLogout()
{
    Debug.Log("Logout successful!");
}
```

## Advanced configuration

The Web3Auth Unity SDK offers a rich set of advanced configuration options:

- **[Custom authentication](./advanced/custom-authentication.mdx):** Define authentication methods.
- **[Whitelabeling and UI customization](./advanced/whitelabel.mdx):** Personalize the modal's appearance.
- **[Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)](./advanced/mfa.mdx):** Set up and manage MFA.
- **[Dapp share](./advanced/dapp-share.mdx):** Share dapp sessions across devices.

:::tip

See the [advanced configuration sections](./advanced/) to learn more about each configuration option.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic-config"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Configuration", value: "basic-config" },
    { label: "Advanced Configuration", value: "advanced-config" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic-config">

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

//focus-start
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
//focus-end
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced-config">

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

var loginConfigItem = new LoginConfigItem()
    {
        verifier = "google-verifier", // Get this from the Web3Auth Dashboard
        typeOfLogin = TypeOfLogin.GOOGLE,
        clientId = "YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID" // Google's client ID
    };

//focus-start
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
    loginConfig = new Dictionary<string, LoginConfigItem>
    {
        {"google", loginConfigItem}
    }
    mfaSettings = new MfaSettings() {
        deviceShareFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 1
        },
        backUpShareFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 2
        },
        socialBackupFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 3
        },
        passwordFactor = new MfaSetting() {
            enable = true,
            priority = 4
        }
    }
});
//focus-end
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Blockchain integration

Web3Auth is blockchain agnostic, enabling integration with any blockchain network. We recommend using the **Nethereum Library** for Ethereum integration.

### Ethereum integration

:::tip

We recommend you use the [Nethereum Library](https://docs.nethereum.com/en/latest/unity3d-introduction/) for making the blockchain calls. See [how to integrate Nethereum with Web3Auth](../../connect-blockchain/evm/ethereum/unity.mdx).

:::

For Ethereum integration, you can get the private key and use it with Nethereum:

```cs
using Nethereum.Web3;
using Nethereum.Util;
using Nethereum.Signer;
using Nethereum.Hex.HexConvertors.Extensions;
using Nethereum.ABI.Encoders;
using Nethereum.Hex.HexTypes;
using Nethereum.Web3.Accounts;
using Nethereum.Web3.Accounts.Managed;

public class Web3AuthScript : MonoBehaviour
{
    Web3 web3;
    Web3Auth web3Auth;
    private string privateKey;
    private Account account;

    const string rpcURL = "" // EVM chain RPC URL

    void Start()
    {

      web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

      // Add Web3Auth Unity SDK Initialisation Code here

      web3Auth.onLogin += onLogin;
      web3Auth.onLogout += onLogout;
      web3 = new Web3(rpcURL);
    }

    private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response)
    {
        //focus-start
        // get the private key from web3auth response
        privateKey = response.privKey;
        // generate the user account
        var account = new Account(privateKey);
        // get the user address
        address = account.Address;

        // create the web3 instance
        web3 = new Web3("rpcURL");

        // get the user balance
        var balance = web3.Eth.GetBalance.SendRequestAsync(address).Result.Value;
        //focus-end
    }
// ...
}
```

### Solana integration

For Solana integration, you can get the Ed25519 private key:

```cs
private void onLogin(Web3AuthResponse response)
{
    var ed25519PrivKey = response.ed25519PrivKey;
    // Use Ed25519 private key with Solana libraries
    Debug.Log("Solana Ed25519 Private Key: " + ed25519PrivKey);
}
```
