embedded-wallets/sdk/android/advanced/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced Configuration
sidebar_label: Overview
description: 'Web3Auth Android SDK - Advanced Configuration | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

The Web3Auth SDK provides extensive configuration options that allow you to customize authentication flows, UI appearance, blockchain integrations, and security features to meet your application's specific requirements.

## Configuration Structure

When setting up Web3Auth, you'll pass in the options to the constructor. This consists of:

```kotlin
import com.web3auth.core.Web3Auth
import com.web3auth.core.types.Web3AuthOptions

// focus-start
var web3Auth = Web3Auth(
  Web3AuthOptions(
    context = this,
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Network.MAINNET,
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse("{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://auth"),
  )
)
// focus-end

// Handle user signing in when app is in background
web3Auth.setResultUrl(intent?.data)
```

### `Web3AuthOptions`

The Web3Auth Constructor takes an object with `Web3AuthOptions` as input.

<Tabs
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Parameters", value: "basic" },
    { label: "Advanced Parameters", value: "advanced" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic">

| Parameter         | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `context`         | Android context to launch Web-based authentication, usually is the current activity. It's a mandatory field, and accepts `android.content.Context` as a value.       |
| `clientId`        | Your Web3Auth Client ID. You can get it from Web3Auth [Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/) under project details. It's a mandatory field of type `String`     |
| `network`         | Defines the Web3Auth Network. It's a mandatory field of type Network.                                                                                                |
| `redirectUrl`     | URL that Web3Auth will redirect API responses upon successful authentication from browser. It's a mandatory field of type `Uri`.                                     |
| `sessionTime?`    | It allows developers to configure the session management time. Session Time is in seconds, default is 86400 seconds which is 1 day. `sessionTime` can be max 30 days |
| `useCoreKitKey?`  | Use CoreKit (or SFA) Key to get core kit key given by SFA SDKs. It's an optional field with default value as `false`. Useful for Wallet Pregeneration.               |
| `chainNamespace?` | Chain Namespace [`EIP155` and `SOLANA`]. It takes `ChainNamespace` as a value.                                                                                       |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced">

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `whiteLabel?`  | WhiteLabel options for web3auth. It helps you define custom UI, branding, and translations for your brand app. It takes `WhiteLabelData` as a value. |
| `loginConfig?` | Login config for the custom verifiers. It takes `HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>` as a value.                                                       |
| `mfaSettings?` | Allows developers to configure the Mfa settings for authentication. It takes `MfaSettings` as a value.                                               |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```kotlin
data class Web3AuthOptions(
    var context: Context,
    val clientId: String,
    val network: Network,
    var buildEnv: BuildEnv? = BuildEnv.PRODUCTION,
    @Transient var redirectUrl: Uri,
    var sdkUrl: String = getSdkUrl(buildEnv),
    val whiteLabel: WhiteLabelData? = null,
    val loginConfig: HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>? = null,
    val useCoreKitKey: Boolean? = false,
    val chainNamespace: ChainNamespace? = ChainNamespace.EIP155,
    val mfaSettings: MfaSettings? = null,
    val sessionTime: Int? = 86400
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Session Management

Control how long users stay authenticated and how sessions persist. The session key is stored in the device's encrypted Keystore.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `sessionTime` - Session duration in seconds. Controls how long users remain authenticated before needing to log in again.
  - Minimum: 1 second (`1`).
  - Maximum: 30 days (`86400 * 30`).
  - Default: 7 days (`86400 * 7`).

```kotlin
var web3Auth = Web3Auth(
  Web3AuthOptions(
    context = this,
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Network.MAINNET,
    sessionTime = 86400 * 7, // 7 days (in seconds)
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse("{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://auth"),
  )
)
```

## Custom Authentication Methods

Control the login options presented to your users. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Custom Authentication](./custom-authentication.mdx) section.

## UI Customization

Create a seamless brand experience by customizing the Web3Auth Login Screens to match your application's design. For complete customization options, refer to the [Whitelabeling & UI Customization](./whitelabel.mdx) section.

## Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

Add additional security layers to protect user accounts with two-factor authentication. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Multi-Factor Authentication](./mfa.mdx) section.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `mfaSettings` - Configure MFA settings for different authentication flows
- `mfaLevel` - Control when users are prompted to set up MFA

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/android/advanced/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced Configuration
sidebar_label: Overview
description: 'Web3Auth Android SDK - Advanced Configuration | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

The Embedded Wallets SDK provides extensive configuration options that allow you to customize authentication flows, UI appearance, blockchain integrations, and security features to meet your application's specific requirements.

## Configuration structure

When setting up Embedded Wallets, you'll pass in the options to the constructor. This consists of:

```kotlin
import com.web3auth.core.Web3Auth
import com.web3auth.core.types.Web3AuthOptions

// focus-start
var web3Auth = Web3Auth(
  Web3AuthOptions(
    context = this,
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Network.MAINNET,
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse("{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://auth"),
  )
)
// focus-end

// Handle user signing in when app is in background
web3Auth.setResultUrl(intent?.data)
```

### `Web3AuthOptions`

The Web3Auth Constructor takes an object with `Web3AuthOptions` as input.

<Tabs
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Parameters", value: "basic" },
    { label: "Advanced Parameters", value: "advanced" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic">

| Parameter         | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `context`         | Android context to launch web-based authentication, usually is the current activity. It's a mandatory field, and accepts `android.content.Context` as a value.       |
| `clientId`        | Your Embedded Wallets Client ID. You can get it from Embedded Wallets [dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/) under project details. It's a mandatory field of type `String`     |
| `network`         | Defines the Embedded Wallets Network. It's a mandatory field of type Network.                                                                                                |
| `redirectUrl`     | URL that Embedded Wallets will redirect API responses upon successful authentication from browser. It's a mandatory field of type `Uri`.                                     |
| `sessionTime?`    | Allows developers to configure the session management time. Session time is in seconds, default is 86400 seconds which is 1 day. `sessionTime` can be max 30 days. |
| `useCoreKitKey?`  | Use CoreKit (or SFA) key to get core kit key given by SFA SDKs. It's an optional field with default value as `false`. Useful for Wallet Pregeneration.               |
| `chainNamespace?` | Chain Namespace [`EIP155` and `SOLANA`]. It takes `ChainNamespace` as a value.                                                                                       |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="advanced">

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `whiteLabel?`  | Whitelabel options for Embedded Wallets. It helps you define custom UI, branding, and translations for your brand app. It takes `WhiteLabelData` as a value. |
| `loginConfig?` | Login config for the custom verifiers. It takes `HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>` as a value.                                                       |
| `mfaSettings?` | Allows developers to configure the MFA settings for authentication. It takes `MfaSettings` as a value.                                               |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```kotlin
data class Web3AuthOptions(
    var context: Context,
    val clientId: String,
    val network: Network,
    var buildEnv: BuildEnv? = BuildEnv.PRODUCTION,
    @Transient var redirectUrl: Uri,
    var sdkUrl: String = getSdkUrl(buildEnv),
    val whiteLabel: WhiteLabelData? = null,
    val loginConfig: HashMap<String, LoginConfigItem>? = null,
    val useCoreKitKey: Boolean? = false,
    val chainNamespace: ChainNamespace? = ChainNamespace.EIP155,
    val mfaSettings: MfaSettings? = null,
    val sessionTime: Int? = 86400
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Session management

Control how long users stay authenticated and how sessions persist. The session key is stored in the device's encrypted Keystore.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `sessionTime` - Session duration in seconds. Controls how long users remain authenticated before needing to log in again.
  - Minimum: 1 second (`1`).
  - Maximum: 30 days (`86400 * 30`).
  - Default: 7 days (`86400 * 7`).

```kotlin
var web3Auth = Web3Auth(
  Web3AuthOptions(
    context = this,
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Network.MAINNET,
    sessionTime = 86400 * 7, // 7 days (in seconds)
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse("{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://auth"),
  )
)
```

## Custom authentication methods

Control the login options presented to your users. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [custom authentication](./custom-authentication.mdx) section.

## UI customization

Create a seamless brand experience by customizing the Embedded Wallets login screens to match your application's design. For complete customization options, refer to the [Whitelabeling & UI Customization](./whitelabel.mdx) section.

## Multi-Factor Authentication

Add additional security layers to protect user accounts with two-factor authentication. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Multi-Factor Authentication](./mfa.mdx) section.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `mfaSettings` - Configure MFA settings for different authentication flows
- `mfaLevel` - Control when users are prompted to set up MFA
