embedded-wallets/sdk/android/advanced/whitelabel.mdx, before:

---
title: Whitelabel
sidebar_label: Whitelabel
description: 'Web3Auth - Whitelabel | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import WhiteLabelShowcase from '../../_common/_whitelabel_showcase.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'
import WhitelabelingNote from '../../_common/_whitelabeling_note.mdx'

Web3Auth allows complete whitelabeling with application branding for a consistent user experience. You can customize three different aspects:

- **UI elements**: Customize the appearance of modals and components
- **Branding**: Apply your brand colors, logos, and themes
- **Translations**: Localize the interface for your users

<WhitelabelingNote />

<GrowthPlanNote />

## Customizing the Web3Auth Login Screens

For defining custom UI, branding, and translations for your brand during Web3Auth instantiation, you just need to specify an additional parameter within the `Web3AuthOptions` object called `whiteLabel`. This parameter takes object called `WhiteLabelData`.

### `WhiteLabelData`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `appName?` | Display name for the app in the UI. |
| `logoLight?` | App logo to be used in dark mode. It accepts url in `String` as a value. |
| `logoDark?` | App logo to be used in light mode. It accepts url in `String` as a value. |
| `defaultLanguage?` | Language which will be used by Web3Auth, app will use browser language if not specified. Default language is `Language.EN`. Checkout `Language` for supported languages. |
| `mode?` | Theme mode for the login modal. Choose between `ThemeModes.AUTO`, `ThemeModes.LIGHT` or `ThemeModes.DARK` background modes. Default value is `ThemeModes.AUTO`. |
| `theme?` | Used to customize the theme of the login modal. It accepts `HashMap` as a value. |
| `appUrl?` | Url to be used in the Modal. It accepts url in `String` as a value. |
| `useLogoLoader?` | Use logo loader. If `logoDark` and `logoLight` are null, the default Web3Auth logo will be used for the loader. Default value is false. |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```kotlin
data class WhiteLabelData(
    private var appName: String? = null,
    private var appUrl: String? = null,
    private var logoLight: String? = null,
    private var logoDark: String? = null,
    private var defaultLanguage: Language? = Language.EN,
    private var mode: ThemeModes? = null,
    private var useLogoLoader: Boolean? = false,
    private var theme: HashMap<String, String>? = null
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<WhiteLabelShowcase />

### Example

```kotlin title="Usage"
web3Auth = Web3Auth (
  Web3AuthOptions (
    context = this,
    clientId = getString (R.string.web3auth_project_id),
    network = Network.MAINNET,
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse ("{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://auth"),
    // Optional whitelabel object
    // focus-start
    whiteLabel = WhiteLabelData (
      appName = "Web3Auth Sample App",
      appUrl = null,
      logoLight = null,
      logoDark = null,
      defaultLanguage = Language.EN, // EN, DE, JA, KO, ZH, ES, FR, PT, NL
      ThemeModes = ThemeModes.DARK, // LIGHT, DARK, AUTO
      useLogoLoader = true,
      theme = hashMapOf (
        "primary" to "#229954"
      )
    )
    // focus-end
  )
)
```

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/android/advanced/whitelabel.mdx, after:

---
title: Whitelabel
sidebar_label: Whitelabel
description: 'Web3Auth - Whitelabel | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import WhiteLabelShowcase from '../../_common/_whitelabel_showcase.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'
import WhitelabelingNote from '../../_common/_whitelabeling_note.mdx'

Embedded Wallets supports whitelabeling with application branding for a consistent user experience. You can customize three different aspects:

- **UI elements:** Customize the appearance of modals and components
- **Branding:** Apply your brand colors, logos, and themes
- **Translations:** Localize the interface for your users

<WhitelabelingNote />

<GrowthPlanNote />

## Customizing the Web3Auth login screens

For defining custom UI, branding, and translations for your brand during Embedded Wallets instantiation, you just need to specify an additional parameter within the `Web3AuthOptions` object called `whiteLabel`. This parameter takes object called `WhiteLabelData`.

### `WhiteLabelData`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `appName?` | Display name for the app in the UI. |
| `logoLight?` | App logo to be used in dark mode. It accepts URL as a string. |
| `logoDark?` | App logo to be used in light mode. It accepts URL as a string. |
| `defaultLanguage?` | Language which will be used by Web3Auth, app will use browser language if not specified. Default language is `Language.EN`. Checkout `Language` for supported languages. |
| `mode?` | Theme mode for the login modal. Choose between `ThemeModes.AUTO`, `ThemeModes.LIGHT` or `ThemeModes.DARK` background modes. Default value is `ThemeModes.AUTO`. |
| `theme?` | Used to customize the theme of the login modal. It accepts `HashMap` as a value. |
| `appUrl?` | URL to be used in the modal. It accepts URL as a string. |
| `useLogoLoader?` | Use logo loader. If `logoDark` and `logoLight` are null, the default Web3Auth logo will be used for the loader. Default value is false. |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```kotlin
data class WhiteLabelData(
    private var appName: String? = null,
    private var appUrl: String? = null,
    private var logoLight: String? = null,
    private var logoDark: String? = null,
    private var defaultLanguage: Language? = Language.EN,
    private var mode: ThemeModes? = null,
    private var useLogoLoader: Boolean? = false,
    private var theme: HashMap<String, String>? = null
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<WhiteLabelShowcase />

### Example

```kotlin title="Usage"
web3Auth = Web3Auth (
  Web3AuthOptions (
    context = this,
    clientId = getString (R.string.web3auth_project_id),
    network = Network.MAINNET,
    redirectUrl = Uri.parse ("{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}://auth"),
    // Optional whitelabel object
    // focus-start
    whiteLabel = WhiteLabelData (
      appName = "Web3Auth Sample App",
      appUrl = null,
      logoLight = null,
      logoDark = null,
      defaultLanguage = Language.EN, // EN, DE, JA, KO, ZH, ES, FR, PT, NL
      ThemeModes = ThemeModes.DARK, // LIGHT, DARK, AUTO
      useLogoLoader = true,
      theme = hashMapOf (
        "primary" to "#229954"
      )
    )
    // focus-end
  )
)
```
