embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate Embedded Wallets with EVM Compatible Chains
sidebar_label: Overview
image: 'img/embedded-wallets/banners/ethereum.png'
description: 'Integrate Embedded Wallets with EVM Compatible Chains | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tiles from '@theme/Tiles'
import EVMChains from '../_evm-chains.mdx'

Embedded Wallets (formerly Web3Auth) SDKs are fully compatible with all EVM-based chains, following the specifications outlined in EIP-155 and EIP-1193. EIP-155 defines the standard for transaction replay protection, enhancing security across platforms. EIP-1193 outlines the standard EVM API, enabling developers to interact with EVM blockchains efficiently.

::::note

The SDKs are now branded as MetaMask Embedded Wallet SDKs (formerly Web3Auth Plug and Play SDKs). Package names and APIs remain Web3Auth (for example, Web3Auth React SDK), and code snippets may reference `web3auth` identifiers.

::::

::::info

With Embedded Wallets v10 onwards, chains are already added to the Dashboard. You can use any chain from the extensive list of predefined chains and add more if needed by toggling them on. See our guide to [add custom chains](/embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/custom-chains) for more details.

::::

We have documented some of the famous EVM Compatible Chains here.

<EVMChains />

Commit message:

Restructure Embedded Wallets Docs (#2399)
* reshuffle evm chains

* Add node for evm chains

* Change help link

* Change home hero section

* Update sub nav bar

* Update connect blockchain section

* Fix node logo issues

* fix duplication errors

* fix broken links

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/connect-blockchain/evm/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate Embedded Wallets with EVM Compatible Chains
sidebar_label: Overview
image: 'img/embedded-wallets/banners/ethereum.png'
description: 'Integrate Embedded Wallets with EVM Compatible Chains | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tiles from '@theme/Tiles'
import EVMChains from '../_evm-chains.mdx'

Embedded Wallets (formerly Web3Auth) SDKs have a seamless integration with all EVM-based chains, following the specifications outlined in EIP-155 and EIP-1193. Additionally, smart accounts are supported for all compatible chains.

You can check out the following guides we've written for certain blockchains. We have covered a wide variety of EVM Chains, if anything is missing, you can add directly on the [Dashboard](#dashboard-configuration).

<EVMChains />

## Dashboard Configuration

::::info

With Embedded Wallets v10 onwards, chains are already added to the Dashboard. You can use any chain from the extensive list of predefined chains and add more if needed by toggling them on. See our guide to [add custom chains](/embedded-wallets/dashboard/chains-and-networks/#adding-custom-networks) for more details.

::::

The Embedded Wallets Web SDK(`@web3auth/modal`) from v10 onwards does not need any additional setup on the code side for blockchain connections. All of it is handled on the Dashboard. We can use any chain from the extensive list of predefined chains and add more if we need.

![Chains on Dashboard](https://i.ibb.co/4nCD2GTJ/chains.gif)
