embedded-wallets/authentication/custom-connections/aws-cognito.mdx, before:

---
title: AWS Cognito Login with Web3Auth
sidebar_label: AWS Cognito
description: 'AWS Cognito Login with Web3Auth | Embedded Wallets'
---

import CustomConnectionOptions from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/authentication-custom-connections.png'
import AWSConnection from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/aws-cognito-connection.png'
import ImplicitLoginCognito from '../../sdk/react/advanced/_custom-authentication-snippets/_implicit_login_aws_cognito.mdx'

AWS Cognito is a scalable authentication service provided by Amazon Web Services that enables developers to securely manage user sign-up, sign-in, and access control. Web3Auth supports AWS Cognito as a service provider, allowing seamless integration between AWS Cognito’s authentication capabilities and Web3Auth’s decentralized key management infrastructure.

[Take a look at the supported social logins on AWS Cognito](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pools-social-idp.html)

## Create an AWS Cognito Application

To begin the integration process, developers must first create a new AWS Cognito application using the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/). This initial setup is required before configuring the connection within Web3Auth.

Once the AWS Cognito application is created, developers can proceed to add it as a custom connection in the Web3Auth Dashboard.

[Learn how to set up AWS Cognito](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-console).

## Create an AWS Cognito Connection

:::success Create AWS Cognito Connection on Dashboard

To use this feature, developers must go to the `Custom Connections` tab in the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).

:::

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={CustomConnectionOptions}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '800px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Custom Connection Options"
  />
</div>

Follow these steps to create a AWS Cognito connection:

1. Visit the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).
1. Go to the `Custom Connections` section.
1. Click on the `Settings` icon near the `AWS Cognito` connection.
1. Enter the `Cognito Connection ID`.
1. Paste `https://cognito-idp.{REGION}.amazonaws.com/{USER_POOL_ID}/.well-known/jwks.json` as `JWKS Endpoint`.
1. Paste a sample `JWT Token` to auto populate the best **JWT validations** possible.
1. Select the `JWT user identifier`: `email`, `sub` or `custom`.
1. Toggle the Case Sensitivity of `User Identifier`. (Optional)
1. Click on `Add Custom Validations` to add validations manually.
   1. Type iss as a field and `https://cognito-idp.{REGION}.amazonaws.com/{USER_POOL_ID}` as a value.
   1. Next, type aud as a field and `APP_CLIENT_ID` as a value.
1. Finally, click on the `Add Connection` button.

> Note: Replace the `REGION`, `USER_POOL_ID` and `APP_CLIENT_ID` with your Cognito specific details.

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={AWSConnection}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '800px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="AWS Cognito Connection"
  />
</div>

## Usage

Since, the `AWS Cognito Connection` details are available from Dashboard, developers don't need to pass any additional parameters to the `Web3AuthProvider`.

> Follow our [Quickstart Guide](/quick-start) to setup the basic flow.

### Login with AWS Cognito

<ImplicitLoginCognito />

Commit message:

Web3Auth references to EW in authentication
Updated documentation to replace 'Web3Auth' with 'Embedded Wallets' throughout authentication and troubleshooting guides. Adjusted dashboard references, titles, descriptions, and internal links to reflect the new branding and clarify SDK naming conventions.

embedded-wallets/authentication/custom-connections/aws-cognito.mdx, after:

---
title: AWS Cognito Login with Embedded Wallets
sidebar_label: AWS Cognito
description: 'AWS Cognito Login with Embedded Wallets | Embedded Wallets'
---

import CustomConnectionOptions from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/authentication-custom-connections.png'
import AWSConnection from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/aws-cognito-connection.png'
import ImplicitLoginCognito from '../../sdk/react/advanced/_custom-authentication-snippets/_implicit_login_aws_cognito.mdx'

AWS Cognito is a scalable authentication service provided by Amazon Web Services that enables developers to securely manage user sign-up, sign-in, and access control. Web3Auth supports AWS Cognito as a service provider, allowing seamless integration between AWS Cognito’s authentication capabilities and Web3Auth’s decentralized key management infrastructure.

[Take a look at the supported social logins on AWS Cognito](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pools-social-idp.html)

## Create an AWS Cognito Application

To begin the integration process, developers must first create a new AWS Cognito application using the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/). This initial setup is required before configuring the connection within Web3Auth.

Once the AWS Cognito application is created, developers can proceed to add it as a custom connection in the Embedded Wallets Dashboard.

[Learn how to set up AWS Cognito](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-console).

## Create an AWS Cognito Connection

:::success Create AWS Cognito Connection on Dashboard

To use this feature, developers must go to the `Custom Connections` tab in the [Embedded Wallets Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).

:::

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={CustomConnectionOptions}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '800px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Custom Connection Options"
  />
</div>

Follow these steps to create a AWS Cognito connection:

1. Visit the [Embedded Wallets Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).
1. Go to the `Custom Connections` section.
1. Click on the `Settings` icon near the `AWS Cognito` connection.
1. Enter the `Cognito Connection ID`.
1. Paste `https://cognito-idp.{REGION}.amazonaws.com/{USER_POOL_ID}/.well-known/jwks.json` as `JWKS Endpoint`.
1. Paste a sample `JWT Token` to auto populate the best **JWT validations** possible.
1. Select the `JWT user identifier`: `email`, `sub` or `custom`.
1. Toggle the Case Sensitivity of `User Identifier`. (Optional)
1. Click on `Add Custom Validations` to add validations manually.
   1. Type iss as a field and `https://cognito-idp.{REGION}.amazonaws.com/{USER_POOL_ID}` as a value.
   1. Next, type aud as a field and `APP_CLIENT_ID` as a value.
1. Finally, click on the `Add Connection` button.

> Note: Replace the `REGION`, `USER_POOL_ID` and `APP_CLIENT_ID` with your Cognito specific details.

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={AWSConnection}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '800px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="AWS Cognito Connection"
  />
</div>

## Usage

Since, the `AWS Cognito Connection` details are available from Dashboard, developers don't need to pass any additional parameters to the `Web3AuthProvider`.

> Follow our [Quickstart Guide](/quick-start) to setup the basic flow.

### Login with AWS Cognito

<ImplicitLoginCognito />
