embedded-wallets/authentication/custom-connections/custom-jwt.mdx, before:

---
title: Custom JWT Login with Web3Auth
sidebar_label: Custom JWT
description: 'Custom JWT Login with Web3Auth | Embedded Wallets'
image: 'img/docs-meta-cards/documentation-card.png'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

import CustomConnectionOptions from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/authentication-custom-connections.png'
import CustomJWTConnection from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/custom-connection.png'
import JwtLoginCustom from '../../sdk/react/advanced/_custom-authentication-snippets/_jwt_login_custom.mdx'

Web3Auth supports integration with custom login providers through JWT-based authentication schemes, allowing developers to maintain their existing authentication infrastructure while leveraging Web3Auth’s wallet and key management capabilities. Custom authentication can be implemented using industry-standard cryptographic algorithms such as RSA or ECDSA signatures.

To use this feature, developers must ensure that their JWTs adhere to the [JWT specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519). Each JWT must be signed using a private key, and its corresponding public key must be accessible via a [JWKS (JSON Web Key Set)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517) endpoint. Web3Auth will use this endpoint to verify the integrity and authenticity of incoming tokens during login.

Once the Custom JWT login is working, developers can proceed to add it as a custom connection in the Web3Auth Dashboard.

## Set up Custom JWT Connection

:::success Create Custom Connection on Dashboard

To use this feature, developers must go to the `Custom Connections` tab in the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).

:::

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={CustomConnectionOptions}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '600px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Custom Connection Options"
  />
</div>

Follow these steps to create a AWS Cognito connection:

1. Visit the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).
1. Go to the `Custom Connections` section.
1. Click on the `Settings` icon near the `Custom Connection`.
1. Enter the `Auth Connection ID`.
1. Paste the `JWKS Endpoint`.
1. Paste a sample `JWT Token` to auto populate the best **JWT validations** possible.
1. Select the `JWT user identifier`: `email`, `sub` or `custom`.
1. Toggle the Case Sensitivity of `User Identifier`. (Optional)
1. Click on `Add Custom Validations` to add validations manually.
   1. Type iss as a field and `your-issuer` as a value.
   1. Next, type aud as a field and `your-audience` as a value.
1. Finally, click on the `Add Connection` button.

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={CustomJWTConnection}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '600px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Custom JWT Connection"
  />
</div>

## Create JWT

To generate the JWT, developers may use a package of their choice. Web3Auth provides documentation and examples using both the `jsonwebtoken` and `jose` libraries.

### Generate Private Key

Developers can generate a private key using the `openssl` command-line tool. This private key will be used to sign the ID token.

<Tabs
defaultValue="rsa"
values={[
  { label: "RSA256", value: "rsa" },
  { label: "ECDSA", value: "ecdsa" },
]}
>
<TabItem value="rsa">

Developers can run the following command in the terminal to generate a new `privateKey.pem` file containing the `RSA256` key details.

```bash
openssl genrsa -out privateKey.pem 2048
```

Once the private key is generated, developers can generate the public key which can be used to verify the JWT and [convert it to JWKS](#how-to-convert-pem-to-jwks).

```bash
openssl rsa -in privateKey.pem -pubout -out publicKey.pem
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ecdsa">

Developers can run the following command in the terminal to generate a new `privateKey.pem` file containing the `ECDSA` key details.

```bash
openssl ecparam -name secp256k1 -genkey -noout -out ec-secp256k1-privateKey.pem
```

Once the private key is generated, developers can generate the public key which can be used to verify the JWT and [convert it to JWKS](#how-to-convert-pem-to-jwks).

```bash
openssl ec -in ec-secp256k1-privateKey.pem -pubout -out ec-secp256k1-publicKey.pem
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Install JWT Library

Developers can install a JWT library of their choice. Following are the documentation and examples using both the `jsonwebtoken` and `jose` libraries.

```bash npm2yarn
npm i jsonwebtoken

npm i jose
```

### Generate JWT

<Tabs
defaultValue="jsonwebtoken"
values={[
  { label: "jsonwebtoken", value: "jsonwebtoken" },
  { label: "jose", value: "jose" },
]}
>
<TabItem value="jsonwebtoken">

Web3Auth provides documentation for using RSA256 and ECDSA—two of the most commonly used algorithms—for generating JWTs with the `jsonwebtoken` package. For a complete list of supported algorithms, developers can refer to the [jsonwebtoken documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken#algorithms-supported).

<Tabs
defaultValue="rsa"
values={[
  { label: "RSA256", value: "rsa" },
  { label: "ECDSA", value: "ecdsa" },
]}
>
<TabItem value="rsa">

Developers can create an `index.js` file and insert the following code snippet to generate a JWT using the `RSA` algorithm.

```tsx
import jwt from 'jsonwebtoken'
import fs from 'fs'

var privateKey = fs.readFileSync('privateKey.pem')

var token = jwt.sign(
  {
    sub: 'faj2720i2fdG7NsqznOKrthDvq43', // must be unique to each user
    name: 'Mohammad Shahbaz Alam',
    email: 'shahbaz@web3auth.io',
    aud: 'urn:my-resource-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iss: 'https://my-authz-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iat: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000),
    exp: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000) + 60 * 60,
  },
  privateKey,
  { algorithm: 'RS256', keyid: '1bb9605c36e69386830202b2d' } // <-- Replace it with your kid. This has to be present in the JWKS endpoint.
)

console.log(token)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ecdsa">

Developers can create an `index.js` file and insert the following code snippet to generate a JWT using the `ECDSA` algorithm.

```tsx
import jwt from 'jsonwebtoken'
import fs from 'fs'

var privateKey = fs.readFileSync('ec-secp256k1-privateKey.pem')

var token = jwt.sign(
  {
    sub: 'faj2720i2fdG7NsqzncndijwnKrthDvq43',
    name: 'Mohammad Shahbaz Alam',
    email: 'shahbaz@web3auth.io',
    aud: 'urn:my-resource-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iss: 'https://my-authz-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iat: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000),
    exp: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000) + 60 * 60,
  },
  privateKey,
  { algorithm: 'ECDSA', keyid: '1bb9605c36e69386830202b2d' } // <-- Replace it with your kid. This has to be present in the JWKS endpoint.
)

console.log(token)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="jose">

Create an index.js file and paste the below code to generate the JWT using RSA algorithm.

```tsx
import * as jose from 'jose'
import fs from 'fs'
var privateKey = fs.readFileSync('privateKey.pem')
var publicKey = fs.readFileSync('publicKey.pem')

const jwt = await new jose.SignJWT({ 'urn:example:claim': true })
  .setProtectedHeader({ alg: 'RS256', kid: '1bb9605c36e69386830202b2d' }) // <-- Replace it with your kid. This has to be present in the JWKS endpoint.
  .setIssuedAt()
  .setIssuer('https://my-authz-server')
  .setAudience('urn:my-resource-server')
  .setExpirationTime('2h')
  .sign(privateKey)

console.log(jwt)

// Verifying the JWT using Remote JWK Set.
// This is just to show how the Verify works, look above to set-up custom jwt verifier on the Web3Auth Dashboard.
// Check the steps below to see how once can generate the JWKS
const JWKS = jose.createRemoteJWKSet(new URL('https://my-authz-server/.well-known/jwks.json'))

const { payload, protectedHeader } = await jose.jwtVerify(jwt, JWKS, {
  issuer: 'https://my-authz-server',
  audience: 'urn:my-resource-server',
})

console.log(protectedHeader)
console.log(payload)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::warning Facing issue with JWT?

Check out [**this troubleshooting page to fix those.**](/troubleshooting/jwt-errors)

:::

## Usage

Since, the `Custom Connection` details are available from Dashboard, developers don't need to pass any additional parameters to the `Web3AuthProvider`.

> Follow our [Quickstart Guide](/quick-start) to setup the basic flow.

### Login with JWT

<JwtLoginCustom />

## What are JWKS?

JWKS stands for JSON Web Key Set. It is a set of keys containing the public keys that should be used to verify any JSON Web Token (JWT) issued by the authorization server and signed using the RS256 signing algorithm.

### How to create JWKS?

- Most of the login providers that support JWT-based login will provide you this URL, such as Firebase, Google, Auth0, AWS Cognito etc.
  - Firebase: `https://www.googleapis.com/service_accounts/v1/jwk/{your-project-id}`
  - Auth0: `https://{your-domain}/.well-known/jwks.json`
  - Google: `https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs`
  - AWS Cognito: `https://cognito-idp.{region}.amazonaws.com/{userPoolId}/.well-known/jwks.json`

- If you are using your own custom JWT, you will need to convert your PEM file to JWKS.

### How to convert PEM to JWKS?

If you're using `jose` or `jsonwebtoken` library, you can use the following steps to convert your PEM file to JWKS.

1. Create a Private Key using openssl.

   ```bash
   openssl genrsa -out privateKey.pem 2048
   ```

   This privateKey will be used to sign the token.

2. Using the above privateKey.pem file, create a Public Key.

   ```bash
   openssl rsa -in privateKey.pem -pubout -out publicKey.pem
   ```

   This publicKey.pem file will be converted to JWKS.

3. Convert the publicKey.pem file to JWKS.

   Now, look for a tool that converts `.pem` to `jwk(s)` format.
   - One of the tools is https://pem2jwk.vercel.app/
     - Select Signing Algorithm: `RS256`
     - Select Public Key Use: `Signing`
     - Key ID: `paste-yours` or leave it blank to generate a random one.
     - PEM encoded key: `{paste-the-publicKey-pem-file-s-content-here}`
   - Click on the `Convert to JWK` button.

     ![JWKS Convert Tool](https://web3auth.io/community/uploads/default/optimized/2X/3/3e58a3b7378b9778b0b2d646ec2a3cf47c56ee5e_2_690x448.jpeg)

4. To complete the process, you need to save the output as a `.json` file, host it on your server, and make sure it's publicly accessible.

   This will give you the `JWKS Endpoint`, which is required when setting up a `Custom JWT Verifier` on the Web3Auth Dashboard.

Commit message:

Web3Auth references to EW in authentication
Updated documentation to replace 'Web3Auth' with 'Embedded Wallets' throughout authentication and troubleshooting guides. Adjusted dashboard references, titles, descriptions, and internal links to reflect the new branding and clarify SDK naming conventions.

embedded-wallets/authentication/custom-connections/custom-jwt.mdx, after:

---
title: Custom JWT Login with Embedded Wallets
sidebar_label: Custom JWT
description: 'Custom JWT Login with Embedded Wallets | Embedded Wallets'
image: 'img/docs-meta-cards/documentation-card.png'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

import CustomConnectionOptions from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/authentication-custom-connections.png'
import CustomJWTConnection from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/custom-connection.png'
import JwtLoginCustom from '../../sdk/react/advanced/_custom-authentication-snippets/_jwt_login_custom.mdx'

Web3Auth supports integration with custom login providers through JWT-based authentication schemes, allowing developers to maintain their existing authentication infrastructure while leveraging Web3Auth’s wallet and key management capabilities. Custom authentication can be implemented using industry-standard cryptographic algorithms such as RSA or ECDSA signatures.

To use this feature, developers must ensure that their JWTs adhere to the [JWT specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519). Each JWT must be signed using a private key, and its corresponding public key must be accessible via a [JWKS (JSON Web Key Set)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517) endpoint. Web3Auth will use this endpoint to verify the integrity and authenticity of incoming tokens during login.

Once the Custom JWT login is working, developers can proceed to add it as a custom connection in the Embedded Wallets Dashboard.

## Set up Custom JWT Connection

:::success Create Custom Connection on Dashboard

To use this feature, developers must go to the `Custom Connections` tab in the [Embedded Wallets Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).

:::

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={CustomConnectionOptions}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '600px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Custom Connection Options"
  />
</div>

Follow these steps to create a AWS Cognito connection:

1. Visit the [Embedded Wallets Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).
1. Go to the `Custom Connections` section.
1. Click on the `Settings` icon near the `Custom Connection`.
1. Enter the `Auth Connection ID`.
1. Paste the `JWKS Endpoint`.
1. Paste a sample `JWT Token` to auto populate the best **JWT validations** possible.
1. Select the `JWT user identifier`: `email`, `sub` or `custom`.
1. Toggle the Case Sensitivity of `User Identifier`. (Optional)
1. Click on `Add Custom Validations` to add validations manually.
   1. Type iss as a field and `your-issuer` as a value.
   1. Next, type aud as a field and `your-audience` as a value.
1. Finally, click on the `Add Connection` button.

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={CustomJWTConnection}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '600px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Custom JWT Connection"
  />
</div>

## Create JWT

To generate the JWT, developers may use a package of their choice. Web3Auth provides documentation and examples using both the `jsonwebtoken` and `jose` libraries.

### Generate Private Key

Developers can generate a private key using the `openssl` command-line tool. This private key will be used to sign the ID token.

<Tabs
defaultValue="rsa"
values={[
  { label: "RSA256", value: "rsa" },
  { label: "ECDSA", value: "ecdsa" },
]}
>
<TabItem value="rsa">

Developers can run the following command in the terminal to generate a new `privateKey.pem` file containing the `RSA256` key details.

```bash
openssl genrsa -out privateKey.pem 2048
```

Once the private key is generated, developers can generate the public key which can be used to verify the JWT and [convert it to JWKS](#how-to-convert-pem-to-jwks).

```bash
openssl rsa -in privateKey.pem -pubout -out publicKey.pem
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ecdsa">

Developers can run the following command in the terminal to generate a new `privateKey.pem` file containing the `ECDSA` key details.

```bash
openssl ecparam -name secp256k1 -genkey -noout -out ec-secp256k1-privateKey.pem
```

Once the private key is generated, developers can generate the public key which can be used to verify the JWT and [convert it to JWKS](#how-to-convert-pem-to-jwks).

```bash
openssl ec -in ec-secp256k1-privateKey.pem -pubout -out ec-secp256k1-publicKey.pem
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Install JWT Library

Developers can install a JWT library of their choice. Following are the documentation and examples using both the `jsonwebtoken` and `jose` libraries.

```bash npm2yarn
npm i jsonwebtoken

npm i jose
```

### Generate JWT

<Tabs
defaultValue="jsonwebtoken"
values={[
  { label: "jsonwebtoken", value: "jsonwebtoken" },
  { label: "jose", value: "jose" },
]}
>
<TabItem value="jsonwebtoken">

Web3Auth provides documentation for using RSA256 and ECDSA—two of the most commonly used algorithms—for generating JWTs with the `jsonwebtoken` package. For a complete list of supported algorithms, developers can refer to the [jsonwebtoken documentation](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken#algorithms-supported).

<Tabs
defaultValue="rsa"
values={[
  { label: "RSA256", value: "rsa" },
  { label: "ECDSA", value: "ecdsa" },
]}
>
<TabItem value="rsa">

Developers can create an `index.js` file and insert the following code snippet to generate a JWT using the `RSA` algorithm.

```tsx
import jwt from 'jsonwebtoken'
import fs from 'fs'

var privateKey = fs.readFileSync('privateKey.pem')

var token = jwt.sign(
  {
    sub: 'faj2720i2fdG7NsqznOKrthDvq43', // must be unique to each user
    name: 'Mohammad Shahbaz Alam',
    email: 'shahbaz@web3auth.io',
    aud: 'urn:my-resource-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iss: 'https://my-authz-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iat: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000),
    exp: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000) + 60 * 60,
  },
  privateKey,
  { algorithm: 'RS256', keyid: '1bb9605c36e69386830202b2d' } // <-- Replace it with your kid. This has to be present in the JWKS endpoint.
)

console.log(token)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ecdsa">

Developers can create an `index.js` file and insert the following code snippet to generate a JWT using the `ECDSA` algorithm.

```tsx
import jwt from 'jsonwebtoken'
import fs from 'fs'

var privateKey = fs.readFileSync('ec-secp256k1-privateKey.pem')

var token = jwt.sign(
  {
    sub: 'faj2720i2fdG7NsqzncndijwnKrthDvq43',
    name: 'Mohammad Shahbaz Alam',
    email: 'shahbaz@web3auth.io',
    aud: 'urn:my-resource-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iss: 'https://my-authz-server', // -> to be used in Custom Authentication as JWT Field
    iat: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000),
    exp: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000) + 60 * 60,
  },
  privateKey,
  { algorithm: 'ECDSA', keyid: '1bb9605c36e69386830202b2d' } // <-- Replace it with your kid. This has to be present in the JWKS endpoint.
)

console.log(token)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="jose">

Create an index.js file and paste the below code to generate the JWT using RSA algorithm.

```tsx
import * as jose from 'jose'
import fs from 'fs'
var privateKey = fs.readFileSync('privateKey.pem')
var publicKey = fs.readFileSync('publicKey.pem')

const jwt = await new jose.SignJWT({ 'urn:example:claim': true })
  .setProtectedHeader({ alg: 'RS256', kid: '1bb9605c36e69386830202b2d' }) // <-- Replace it with your kid. This has to be present in the JWKS endpoint.
  .setIssuedAt()
  .setIssuer('https://my-authz-server')
  .setAudience('urn:my-resource-server')
  .setExpirationTime('2h')
  .sign(privateKey)

console.log(jwt)

// Verifying the JWT using Remote JWK Set.
// This is just to show how the Verify works, look above to set-up custom jwt verifier on the Embedded Wallets Dashboard.
// Check the steps below to see how once can generate the JWKS
const JWKS = jose.createRemoteJWKSet(new URL('https://my-authz-server/.well-known/jwks.json'))

const { payload, protectedHeader } = await jose.jwtVerify(jwt, JWKS, {
  issuer: 'https://my-authz-server',
  audience: 'urn:my-resource-server',
})

console.log(protectedHeader)
console.log(payload)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::warning Facing issue with JWT?

Check out [**this troubleshooting page to fix those.**](/troubleshooting/jwt-errors)

:::

## Usage

Since, the `Custom Connection` details are available from Dashboard, developers don't need to pass any additional parameters to the `Web3AuthProvider`.

> Follow our [Quickstart Guide](/quick-start) to setup the basic flow.

### Login with JWT

<JwtLoginCustom />

## What are JWKS?

JWKS stands for JSON Web Key Set. It is a set of keys containing the public keys that should be used to verify any JSON Web Token (JWT) issued by the authorization server and signed using the RS256 signing algorithm.

### How to create JWKS?

- Most of the login providers that support JWT-based login will provide you this URL, such as Firebase, Google, Auth0, AWS Cognito etc.
  - Firebase: `https://www.googleapis.com/service_accounts/v1/jwk/{your-project-id}`
  - Auth0: `https://{your-domain}/.well-known/jwks.json`
  - Google: `https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs`
  - AWS Cognito: `https://cognito-idp.{region}.amazonaws.com/{userPoolId}/.well-known/jwks.json`

- If you are using your own custom JWT, you will need to convert your PEM file to JWKS.

### How to convert PEM to JWKS?

If you're using `jose` or `jsonwebtoken` library, you can use the following steps to convert your PEM file to JWKS.

1. Create a Private Key using openssl.

   ```bash
   openssl genrsa -out privateKey.pem 2048
   ```

   This privateKey will be used to sign the token.

2. Using the above privateKey.pem file, create a Public Key.

   ```bash
   openssl rsa -in privateKey.pem -pubout -out publicKey.pem
   ```

   This publicKey.pem file will be converted to JWKS.

3. Convert the publicKey.pem file to JWKS.

   Now, look for a tool that converts `.pem` to `jwk(s)` format.
   - One of the tools is https://pem2jwk.vercel.app/
     - Select Signing Algorithm: `RS256`
     - Select Public Key Use: `Signing`
     - Key ID: `paste-yours` or leave it blank to generate a random one.
     - PEM encoded key: `{paste-the-publicKey-pem-file-s-content-here}`
   - Click on the `Convert to JWK` button.

     ![JWKS Convert Tool](https://web3auth.io/community/uploads/default/optimized/2X/3/3e58a3b7378b9778b0b2d646ec2a3cf47c56ee5e_2_690x448.jpeg)

4. To complete the process, you need to save the output as a `.json` file, host it on your server, and make sure it's publicly accessible.

   This will give you the `JWKS Endpoint`, which is required when setting up a `Custom JWT Verifier` on the Embedded Wallets Dashboard.
