wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: JavaScript
sidebar_position: 1
description: Set up the SDK in your JavaScript dapp.
tags:
  - JavaScript SDK
---

# Use MetaMask SDK with JavaScript

Import MetaMask SDK into your JavaScript dapp to enable your
users to easily connect to the MetaMask browser extension and MetaMask Mobile.
The following instructions work for web dapps based on standard JavaScript.
You can also see instructions for the following JavaScript-based platforms:

- [React](react/index.md)
  - [React UI](react/react-ui.md)
- [Pure JavaScript](pure-js.md)
- [Other web frameworks](other-web-frameworks.md)
- [Node.js](nodejs.md)
- [Electron](electron.md)

## Prerequisites

- A JavaScript project set up
- [MetaMask Mobile](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile) version 5.8.1 or later
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) or
  [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)

## Steps

### 1. Install the SDK

In your project directory, install the SDK using Yarn or npm:

```bash
yarn add @metamask/sdk
```

or

```bash
npm i @metamask/sdk
```

### 2. Import the SDK

In your project script, add the following to import the SDK:

```javascript title="index.js"
import { MetaMaskSDK } from "@metamask/sdk"
```

### 3. Instantiate the SDK

Instantiate the SDK using any [options](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md):

```javascript title="index.js"
const MMSDK = new MetaMaskSDK({
  dappMetadata: {
    name: "JavaScript example dapp",
    url: window.location.href,
  },
  infuraAPIKey: process.env.INFURA_API_KEY,
  // Other options.
})

// You can also access via window.ethereum.
const ethereum = MMSDK.getProvider()
```

- Use [`dappMetadata`](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md#dappmetadata) to display information
  about your dapp in the MetaMask connection modal.
- Use [`infuraAPIKey`](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md#infuraapikey) to
  [make read-only RPC requests](../../../how-to/make-read-only-requests.md) from your dapp.
- Use [`modals`](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md#modals) to [customize the logic and UI of
  the displayed modals](../../../how-to/display/custom-modals.md).

### 4. Use the SDK

Use the SDK by calling any [provider API methods](../../../reference/provider-api.md).
Always call [`eth_requestAccounts`](/wallet/reference/json-rpc-methods/eth_requestaccounts) using
[`request()`](../../../reference/provider-api.md#request) first, since it
prompts the installation or connection popup to appear.

```javascript
ethereum.request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts", params: [] })
```

You can also call the SDK's [`connectAndSign`](../../../how-to/sign-data/connect-and-sign.md) method, and
[batch multiple JSON-RPC requests](../../../how-to/batch-json-rpc-requests.md) using the `metamask_batch` method.

## Example

You can copy the full JavaScript example to get started:

```javascript title="index.js"
import { MetaMaskSDK } from "@metamask/sdk"

const MMSDK = new MetaMaskSDK({
  dappMetadata: {
    name: "Example JavaScript Dapp",
    url: window.location.href,
  },
  infuraAPIKey: process.env.INFURA_API_KEY,
  // Other options.
})

// You can also access via window.ethereum.
const ethereum = MMSDK.getProvider()

ethereum.request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts", params: [] })
```

See the [example JavaScript dapps](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-sdk/tree/main/packages/examples)
in the JavaScript SDK GitHub repository for more information.

Commit message:

docs: first fixes (#1714)
* docs: first fixes

* docs: add headless option

* docs: wip

* docs: cleanup

* fix: removes logger; standerdizes the provider variable name; add connectAndSign feature

* docs: cleanup

* edits

---------

Co-authored-by: Christopher Ferreira <christopher.ferreira@consensys.net>
Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran <alexandratran@protonmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <12214231+alexandratran@users.noreply.github.com>

wallet/connect/metamask-sdk/javascript/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: JavaScript
sidebar_position: 1
description: Set up the SDK in your JavaScript dapp.
tags:
  - JavaScript SDK
---

# Use MetaMask SDK with JavaScript

Import MetaMask SDK into your JavaScript dapp to enable your
users to easily connect to the MetaMask browser extension and MetaMask Mobile.
The following instructions work for web dapps based on standard JavaScript.
You can also see instructions for the following JavaScript-based platforms:

- [React](react/index.md)
  - [React UI](react/react-ui.md)
- [Pure JavaScript](pure-js.md)
- [Other web frameworks](other-web-frameworks.md)
- [Node.js](nodejs.md)
- [Electron](electron.md)

## Prerequisites

- A JavaScript project set up
- [MetaMask Mobile](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-mobile) version 5.8.1 or later
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) or
  [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)

## Steps

### 1. Install the SDK

In your project directory, install the SDK using Yarn or npm:

```bash
yarn add @metamask/sdk
```

or

```bash
npm i @metamask/sdk
```

### 2. Import the SDK

In your project script, add the following to import the SDK:

```javascript title="index.js"
import { MetaMaskSDK } from "@metamask/sdk"
```

### 3. Instantiate the SDK

Instantiate the SDK using any [options](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md):

```javascript title="index.js"
const MMSDK = new MetaMaskSDK({
  dappMetadata: {
    name: "JavaScript example dapp",
  },
  infuraAPIKey: process.env.INFURA_API_KEY,
  // Other options.
})
```

- Use [`dappMetadata`](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md#dappmetadata) to display information
  about your dapp in the MetaMask connection modal.
- Use [`infuraAPIKey`](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md#infuraapikey) to
  [make read-only RPC requests](../../../how-to/make-read-only-requests.md) from your dapp.
- Use [`headless`](../../../reference/sdk-js-options.md#headless) to [customize the logic and UI of
  the displayed modals](../../../how-to/display/custom-modals.md).

### 4. Use the SDK

We recommend calling `connect()` first. You can also call [`eth_requestAccounts`](/wallet/reference/json-rpc-methods/eth_requestaccounts) using
[`request()`](../../../reference/provider-api.md#request) first, which will prompt the installation or connection popup to appear.

```javascript
const accounts = await MMSDK.connect()
const provider = MMSDK.getProvider()
provider.request({ method: "eth_accounts", params: [] })
```

You can also call the SDK's [`connectAndSign`](../../../how-to/sign-data/connect-and-sign.md) method, and
[batch multiple JSON-RPC requests](../../../how-to/batch-json-rpc-requests.md) using the `metamask_batch` method.

## Example

You can copy the full JavaScript example to get started:

```javascript title="index.js"
import { MetaMaskSDK } from "@metamask/sdk"

const MMSDK = new MetaMaskSDK({
  dappMetadata: {
    name: "Example JavaScript Dapp",
    url: window.location.href,
  },
  infuraAPIKey: process.env.INFURA_API_KEY,
  // Other options.
})

const accounts = await MMSDK.connect()
// You can also access the Ethereum provider object but we recommend using the SDK's methods.
const ethereum = MMSDK.getProvider()
ethereum.request({ method: "eth_accounts", params: [] })
```

See the [example JavaScript dapps](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-sdk/tree/main/packages/examples)
in the JavaScript SDK GitHub repository for more information.
