services/reference/_partials/bundler/_pm_getpaymasterstubdata-parameters.mdx, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v0.7" label="v0.7 and v0.8 user operation">

- `userOperation`: The user operation object containing the following fields:

  - `sender`: (string) - The address of the account making the operation.
  - `nonce`: (string) - Unique identifier for the request from this sender. This includes the key and sequence number.
  - `factory`: (string) [_optional_] - The factory contract address that will deploy the smart account if it doesn't exist yet.
  - `factoryData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data passed to the factory contract to deploy the smart account.
  - `callData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data to pass to the sender during the main execution call.
  - `callGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate the main execution call.
  - `verificationGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step.
  - `preVerificationGas`: (string) - The amount of gas to pay for to compensate the bundler for pre-verification execution and `calldata`.
  - `maxFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee per gas, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas.
  - `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas above the base fee.
  - `paymaster`: (string) [_optional_] - Address of paymaster sponsoring the transaction, or `null` if none.
  - `paymasterVerificationGasLimit`: (string) [_optional_] - The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step of the paymaster, or `null` if no paymaster.
  - `paymasterPostOpGasLimit`: (string) [_optional_] - The amount of gas to allocate for the post-operation step of the paymaster, or `null` if no paymaster.
  - `paymasterData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data to pass to the paymaster during the verification step, or `null` if no paymaster.
  - `eip7702Auth`: (object) [_optional_] - The EIP-7702 authorization data. This can be a dummy authorization:
    - `address`: (string) - The contract address for the authorization.
    - `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID.
    - `nonce`: (string) - The nonce.
    - `r`: (string) - The r component of the signature.
    - `s`: (string) - The s component of the signature.
    - `v`: (string) - The v component of the signature.
    - `yParity`: (string) - The y-parity value.

- `entryPoint`: (string) - The EntryPoint contract address (`0x0000000071727De22E5E9d8BAf0edAc6f37da032`).

- `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID in hexadecimal format.

- `context`: (object) [_optional_] - Additional context information. Can be one of:
  - An object with `token`: (string) - The ERC-20 token address to use for payment.
  - An object with `sponsorshipPolicyId`: (string) - The ID of the sponsorship policy to use.
  - `null` - No additional context.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="v0.6" label="v0.6 user operation">

- `userOperation`: The user operation object containing the following fields:

  - `sender`: (string) - The address of the account making the operation.
  - `nonce`: (string) - Unique identifier for the request from this sender.
  - `initCode`: (string) - The initialization code for the smart account if it doesn't exist yet.
  - `callData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data to pass to the sender during the main execution call.
  - `callGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate the main execution call.
  - `verificationGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step.
  - `preVerificationGas`: (string) - The amount of gas to pay for to compensate the bundler for pre-verification execution and `calldata`.
  - `maxFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee per gas, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas.
  - `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas above the base fee.
  - `paymasterAndData`: (string) - The address of the paymaster contract and the data that will be passed to it.
  - `signature`: (string) - The signature data.
  - `eip7702Auth`: (object) [_optional_] - The EIP-7702 authorization data. This can be a dummy authorization:
    - `address`: (string) - The contract address for the authorization.
    - `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID.
    - `nonce`: (string) - The nonce.
    - `r`: (string) - The r component of the signature.
    - `s`: (string) - The s component of the signature.
    - `v`: (string) - The v component of the signature.
    - `yParity`: (string) - The y-parity value.

- `entryPoint`: (string) - The EntryPoint contract address (`0x5FF137D4b0FDCD49DcA30c7CF57E578a026d2789`).

- `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID in hexadecimal format.

- `context`: (object) [_optional_] - Additional context information. Can be one of:
  - An object with `token`: (string) - The ERC-20 token address to use for payment.
  - An object with `sponsorshipPolicyId`: (string) - The ID of the sponsorship policy to use.
  - `null` - No additional context.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Add additional methods.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

services/reference/_partials/bundler/_pm_getpaymasterstubdata-parameters.mdx, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v0.7" label="v0.7 and v0.8 user operation">

- `userOperation`: The user operation object containing the following fields:

  - `sender`: (string) - The address of the account making the operation.
  - `nonce`: (string) - Unique identifier for the request from this sender. This includes the key and sequence number.
  - `factory`: (string) [_optional_] - The factory contract address that will deploy the smart account if it doesn't exist yet.
  - `factoryData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data passed to the factory contract to deploy the smart account.
  - `callData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data to pass to the sender during the main execution call.
  - `callGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate the main execution call.
  - `verificationGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step.
  - `preVerificationGas`: (string) - The amount of gas to pay for to compensate the bundler for pre-verification execution and `calldata`.
  - `maxFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee per gas, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas.
  - `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas above the base fee.
  - `paymaster`: (string) [_optional_] - Address of paymaster sponsoring the transaction, or `null` if none.
  - `paymasterVerificationGasLimit`: (string) [_optional_] - The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step of the paymaster, or `null` if no paymaster.
  - `paymasterPostOpGasLimit`: (string) [_optional_] - The amount of gas to allocate for the post-operation step of the paymaster, or `null` if no paymaster.
  - `paymasterData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data to pass to the paymaster during the verification step, or `null` if no paymaster.
  - `eip7702Auth`: (object) [_optional_] - The EIP-7702 authorization data. This can be a dummy authorization:
    - `address`: (string) - The contract address for the authorization.
    - `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID.
    - `nonce`: (string) - The nonce.
    - `r`: (string) - The r component of the signature.
    - `s`: (string) - The s component of the signature.
    - `v`: (string) - The v component of the signature.
    - `yParity`: (string) - The y-parity value.

- `entryPoint`: (string) - The EntryPoint contract address (`0x0000000071727De22E5E9d8BAf0edAc6f37da032`).

- `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID in hexadecimal format.

- `context`: (object) [_optional_] - Information about the specific paymaster implementation you are using.
    If use paying gas in ERC-20 Tokens, pass the token address:
  - An object with `token`: (string) - The ERC-20 token address to use for payment.
  - An object with `sponsorshipPolicyId`: (string) - The ID of the sponsorship policy to use.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="v0.6" label="v0.6 user operation">

- `userOperation`: The user operation object containing the following fields:

  - `sender`: (string) - The address of the account making the operation.
  - `nonce`: (string) - Unique identifier for the request from this sender.
  - `initCode`: (string) - The initialization code for the smart account if it doesn't exist yet.
  - `callData`: (string) [_optional_] - The data to pass to the sender during the main execution call.
  - `callGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate the main execution call.
  - `verificationGasLimit`: (string) - The amount of gas to allocate for the verification step.
  - `preVerificationGas`: (string) - The amount of gas to pay for to compensate the bundler for pre-verification execution and `calldata`.
  - `maxFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee per gas, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas.
  - `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: (string) - Maximum fee, in wei, the sender is willing to pay per gas above the base fee.
  - `paymasterAndData`: (string) - The address of the paymaster contract and the data that will be passed to it.
  - `signature`: (string) - The signature data.
  - `eip7702Auth`: (object) [_optional_] - The EIP-7702 authorization data. This can be a dummy authorization:
    - `address`: (string) - The contract address for the authorization.
    - `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID.
    - `nonce`: (string) - The nonce.
    - `r`: (string) - The r component of the signature.
    - `s`: (string) - The s component of the signature.
    - `v`: (string) - The v component of the signature.
    - `yParity`: (string) - The y-parity value.

- `entryPoint`: (string) - The EntryPoint contract address (`0x5FF137D4b0FDCD49DcA30c7CF57E578a026d2789`).

- `chainId`: (string) - The chain ID in hexadecimal format.

- `context`: (object) [_optional_] - Information about the specific paymaster implementation you are using.
    If use paying gas in ERC-20 Tokens, pass the token address:
  - An object with `token`: (string) - The ERC-20 token address to use for payment.
  - An object with `sponsorshipPolicyId`: (string) - The ID of the sponsorship policy to use.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
