embedded-wallets/sdk/js/migration-guides/modal/v9-to-v10/whitelabeling.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrating Whitelabeling from v9 to v10
description: Comprehensive guide for migrating Web3Auth whitelabeling and UI customization configurations from v9 to v10.
sidebar_label: Whitelabeling Migration
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

# Web3Auth v10 Whitelabeling Migration Guide

This guide focuses specifically on migrating whitelabeling and UI customization configurations from Web3Auth v9 to v10. This is a supplementary guide to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](README.mdx).

## Overview

Whitelabeling and UI customization have been significantly streamlined in v10, focusing on dashboard configurations and a more direct approach to modal customization.

## Migration Steps

### 1. Branding (v9 `uiConfig`): Moves to Dashboard

- Most general branding settings previously in the client-side `uiConfig` (e.g., `appName`, `logoLight`, `logoDark`, `theme` colors) are **now primarily configured on the [Web3Auth Developer Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io)**. ![Branding customizations on Web3Auth Dashboard](/img/embedded-wallets/whitelabel/modal/branding.gif)
- **Action:** Transfer v9 `uiConfig` branding to the dashboard. Client-side `uiConfig` in v10 `Web3AuthOptions` is minimal, for overrides not covered by the dashboard.

### 2. Modal Login Method Display (v9 `modalConfig` in `initModal()`): New Structure in `Web3AuthOptions`

- **Previously (v9):** Customizing which login methods appear in the modal (and their appearance/order) was done via `modalConfig` in `initModal()` in v9.
- **Now (v10):** This moves to `modalConfig` within `Web3AuthOptions` (at SDK instantiation). The structure is new, utilizing `connectors` (e.g., `WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH` for social/email, `WALLET_CONNECTORS.WALLET` for external wallets) and a `loginMethods` object within each connector.
- Each login method (e.g., `google`, `email_passwordless`, `metamask`) is an object conforming to `LoginMethodConfig`, allowing you to set `name`, `showOnModal`, `authConnectionId` (for custom auth), etc.
  ```typescript
  // v10: modalConfig in Web3AuthOptions
  const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
    // ... other options
    modalConfig: {
      connectors: {
        [WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH]: {
          /* ... config for social/email ... */
        },
        [WALLET_CONNECTORS.WALLET]: {
          /* ... config for external wallets ... */
        },
      },
    },
  }
  ```
- **Action:** Rebuild your modal display logic using the new `modalConfig` structure in `Web3AuthOptions`. Refer to the v10 `LoginMethodConfig` type definition for all properties. Deprecated v9 `WALLET_ADAPTERS` enum is replaced by `WALLET_CONNECTORS` and specific login method keys.

### 3. Auth Adapter Whitelabeling in v9: No longer supported

- In v9, `whiteLabel` settings in an `@web3auth/auth-adapter` instance could customize intermediate auth screens (e.g., social login pop-ups).
- **In v10, passing this `whiteLabel` configuration is no longer supported since there is no way to configure auth adapter settings.**
- **Action:** Remove v9 `AuthAdapter` `whiteLabel` configurations. Ensure your dashboard branding is comprehensive.

## Summary

This shift centralizes UI control on the dashboard and simplifies client-side SDK configuration for whitelabeling. The new approach provides better consistency across applications and easier maintenance of branding configurations.

## Next Steps

Return to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](README.mdx) to continue with other migration aspects like Smart Account functionality, custom authentication, and MFA configurations.

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/js/migration-guides/modal/v9-to-v10/whitelabeling.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrating Whitelabeling from v9 to v10
description: Comprehensive guide for migrating Web3Auth whitelabeling and UI customization configurations from v9 to v10.
sidebar_label: Whitelabeling Migration
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

# Web3Auth v10 whitelabeling migration guide

This guide focuses specifically on migrating whitelabeling and UI customization configurations from Web3Auth v9 to v10. This is a supplementary guide to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](README.mdx).

## Overview

Whitelabeling and UI customization have been significantly streamlined in v10, focusing on dashboard configurations and a more direct approach to modal customization.

## Migration steps

### 1. Branding (v9 `uiConfig`): Moves to dashboard

- Most general branding settings previously in the client-side `uiConfig` (for example, `appName`, `logoLight`, `logoDark`, `theme` colors) are **now primarily configured on the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io)**. ![Branding customizations on Web3Auth / Embedded Wallets Dashboard](/img/embedded-wallets/whitelabel/modal/branding.gif)
- **Action:** Transfer v9 `uiConfig` branding to the dashboard. Client-side `uiConfig` in v10 `Web3AuthOptions` is minimal, for overrides not covered by the dashboard.

### 2. Modal login method display (v9 `modalConfig` in `initModal()`): New structure in `Web3AuthOptions`

- **Previously (v9):** Customizing which login methods appear in the modal (and their appearance/order) was done via `modalConfig` in `initModal()` in v9.
- **Now (v10):** This moves to `modalConfig` within `Web3AuthOptions` (at SDK instantiation). The structure is new, utilizing `connectors` (for example, `WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH` for social/email, `WALLET_CONNECTORS.WALLET` for external wallets) and a `loginMethods` object within each connector.
- Each login method (for example, `google`, `email_passwordless`, `metamask`) is an object conforming to `LoginMethodConfig`, allowing you to set `name`, `showOnModal`, `authConnectionId` (for custom auth), for example.
  ```typescript
  // v10: modalConfig in Web3AuthOptions
  const web3AuthOptions: Web3AuthOptions = {
    // ... other options
    modalConfig: {
      connectors: {
        [WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH]: {
          /* ... config for social/email ... */
        },
        [WALLET_CONNECTORS.WALLET]: {
          /* ... config for external wallets ... */
        },
      },
    },
  }
  ```
- **Action:** Rebuild your modal display logic using the new `modalConfig` structure in `Web3AuthOptions`. Refer to the v10 `LoginMethodConfig` type definition for all properties. Deprecated v9 `WALLET_ADAPTERS` enum is replaced by `WALLET_CONNECTORS` and specific login method keys.

### 3. Auth adapter whitelabeling in v9: no longer supported

- In v9, `whiteLabel` settings in an `@web3auth/auth-adapter` instance could customize intermediate auth screens (for example, social login pop-ups).
- **In v10, passing this `whiteLabel` configuration is no longer supported since there is no way to configure auth adapter settings.**
- **Action:** Remove v9 `AuthAdapter` `whiteLabel` configurations. Ensure your dashboard branding is comprehensive.

## Summary

This shift centralizes UI control on the dashboard and simplifies client-side SDK configuration for whitelabeling. The new approach provides better consistency across applications and easier maintenance of branding configurations.

## Next steps

Return to the main [v9 to v10 migration guide](README.mdx) to continue with other migration aspects like Smart Account functionality, custom authentication, and MFA configurations.
