embedded-wallets/sdk/unreal/advanced/whitelabel.mdx, before:

---
title: Whitelabel PnP Unreal Engine SDK
sidebar_label: Whitelabel
description: 'Web3Auth PnP Unreal Engine SDK - Whitelabel | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import WhiteLabelShowcase from '../../_common/_whitelabel_showcase.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'
import WhitelabelingNote from '../../_common/_whitelabeling_note.mdx'

Web3Auth allows complete whitelabeling with application branding for a consistent user experience. You can customize three different aspects:

- **UI elements**: Customize the appearance of modals and components
- **Branding**: Apply your brand colors, logos, and themes
- **Translations**: Localize the interface for your users

<WhitelabelingNote />

<GrowthPlanNote />

## Customizing the Web3Auth Login Screens

For defining custom UI, branding, and translations for your brand during Web3Auth instantiation, you just need to specify an additional parameter within the `Web3AuthOptions` object called `whiteLabel`. This parameter takes object called `WhiteLabelData`.

### `WhiteLabelData`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter          | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `appName?`         | Display name for the app in the UI.                                                                                                                                         |
| `logoLight?`       | App logo to be used in dark mode. It accepts url in `FString` as a value.                                                                                                   |
| `logoDark?`        | App logo to be used in light mode. It accepts url in `FString` as a value.                                                                                                  |
| `defaultLanguage?` | Language which will be used by Web3Auth, app will use browser language if not specified. Default language is `FLanguage::en`. Checkout `FLanguage` for supported languages. |
| `mode?`            | Theme mode for the login modal. Choose between `FThemeModes::auto`, `FThemeModes::light` or `FThemeModes::dark` background modes.                                           |
| `theme?`           | Used to customize the theme of the login modal. It accepts `TMap<FString, FString>` as a value.                                                                             |
| `appUrl?`          | Url to be used in the Modal. It accepts url in `FString` as a value.                                                                                                        |
| `useLogoLoader?`   | Use logo loader. If `logoDark` and `logoLight` are null, the default Web3Auth logo will be used for the loader. Default value is false.                                     |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="interface">

```cs
USTRUCT(BlueprintType)
struct FWhiteLabelData
{
	GENERATED_BODY()

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		FString appName;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		FString logoLight;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		FString logoDark;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	FLanguage defaultLanguage = FLanguage::en;

    UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	FThemeModes mode;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		TMap<FString, FString> theme;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	FString appUrl;

    UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	bool useLogoLoader;

	FWhiteLabelData() {};

	void operator= (const FWhiteLabelData& other) {
		appName = other.appName;
		logoLight = other.logoLight;
		logoDark = other.logoDark;
		defaultLanguage = other.defaultLanguage;
		mode = other.mode;
		theme = other.theme;
		appUrl = other.appUrl;
		useLogoLoader = other.useLogoLoader;
	}

};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<WhiteLabelShowcase />

## Example

![Unreal Whitelabel](/img/embedded-wallets/unreal/unreal-whitelable-data.png)

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/unreal/advanced/whitelabel.mdx, after:

---
title: Whitelabel PnP Unreal Engine SDK
sidebar_label: Whitelabel
description: 'Web3Auth PnP Unreal Engine SDK - Whitelabel | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import WhiteLabelShowcase from '../../_common/_whitelabel_showcase.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'
import WhitelabelingNote from '../../_common/_whitelabeling_note.mdx'

Embedded Wallets supports whitelabeling with application branding for a consistent user experience. You can customize three different aspects:

- **UI elements:** Customize the appearance of modals and components
- **Branding:** Apply your brand colors, logos, and themes
- **Translations:** Localize the interface for your users

<WhitelabelingNote />

<GrowthPlanNote />

## Customizing the Embedded Wallets login screens

For defining custom UI, branding, and translations for your brand during Embedded Wallets instantiation, you just need to specify an additional parameter within the `Web3AuthOptions` object called `whiteLabel`. This parameter takes object called `WhiteLabelData`.

### `WhiteLabelData`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter          | Description                                                               |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `appName?`         | Display name for the app in the UI. |
| `logoLight?`       | App logo to be used in dark mode. It accepts URL in `FString` as a value. |
| `logoDark?`        | App logo to be used in light mode. It accepts URL in `FString` as a value. |
| `defaultLanguage?` | Language which will be used by Web3Auth, app will use browser language if not specified. Default language is `FLanguage::en`. Checkout `FLanguage` for supported languages. |
| `mode?`            | Theme mode for the login modal. Choose between `FThemeModes::auto`, `FThemeModes::light` or `FThemeModes::dark` background modes. |
| `theme?`           | Used to customize the theme of the login modal. It accepts `TMap<FString, FString>` as a value.  |
| `appUrl?`          | URL to be used in the Modal. It accepts URL in `FString` as a value. |
| `useLogoLoader?`   | Use logo loader. If `logoDark` and `logoLight` are null, the default Web3Auth logo will be used for the loader. Default value is false.  |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="interface">

```cs
USTRUCT(BlueprintType)
struct FWhiteLabelData
{
	GENERATED_BODY()

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		FString appName;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		FString logoLight;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		FString logoDark;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	FLanguage defaultLanguage = FLanguage::en;

    UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	FThemeModes mode;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
		TMap<FString, FString> theme;

	UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	FString appUrl;

    UPROPERTY(EditAnywhere, BlueprintReadWrite)
    	bool useLogoLoader;

	FWhiteLabelData() {};

	void operator= (const FWhiteLabelData& other) {
		appName = other.appName;
		logoLight = other.logoLight;
		logoDark = other.logoDark;
		defaultLanguage = other.defaultLanguage;
		mode = other.mode;
		theme = other.theme;
		appUrl = other.appUrl;
		useLogoLoader = other.useLogoLoader;
	}

};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<WhiteLabelShowcase />

## Example

![Unreal Whitelabel](/img/embedded-wallets/unreal/unreal-whitelable-data.png)
