embedded-wallets/sdk/js/usage/connect.mdx, before:

---
title: connect & connectTo
sidebar_label: connect & connectTo
description: '@web3auth/modal Connect Functions | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

Functions to connect users to Web3Auth in the browser.

### Import

```javascript
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
```

### Choosing the Right Connection Method

You can connect users to Web3Auth in two main ways, depending on your application's needs:

- **Use `connect()`** when you want to display the default Web3Auth modal. This is ideal if you want to provide users with a pre-built, user-friendly interface where they can choose from all available login options (social logins, wallets, etc.) with minimal setup.

- **Use `connectTo(connector, params)`** when you want to build a fully custom login experience. This method lets you bypass the Web3Auth modal and connect directly to a specific wallet connector (such as Google, Facebook, or a particular wallet). Choose this if you want to design your own UI for login options, or if you want to restrict users to a specific authentication method. This method also allows you to use JWT based login configurations.

**Summary:**

- Use `connect()` for the standard modal experience.
- Use `connectTo()` for custom UIs or direct connection to a specific login method.

### Usage

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Modal", value: "basic" },
    { label: "Custom UI", value: "custom-ui" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic">

:::info

This is the most common way to connect to Web3Auth. It opens the Web3Auth modal UI, allowing users to select from available login options.

:::

```javascript
// Initialize Web3Auth first
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  // Your configuration options
})

await web3auth.init()

// Show the modal and connect
const provider = await web3auth.connect()
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="custom-ui">

:::info

This method allows you to build your own custom connection UI. It bypasses the Web3Auth modal UI, allowing you to create your own custom UI for login options. This can be useful if you want to hide Web3Auth from your end users.

:::

```javascript
import { WALLET_CONNECTORS, AUTH_CONNECTION } from '@web3auth/modal'

// Initialize Web3Auth first
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  // Your configuration options
})

await web3auth.init()

// Connect directly to Google
const provider = await web3auth.connectTo(WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH, {
  authConnection: AUTH_CONNECTION.GOOGLE,
})
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Return Types

```tsx
connect(): Promise<IProvider | null>;
connectTo<T extends WALLET_CONNECTOR_TYPE>(connector: T, params?: LoginParamMap[T]): Promise<IProvider | null>;
```

#### Return Values

- **IProvider | null**
  - On successful login, returns an `IProvider` instance containing the respective provider corresponding to your selected blockchain.
  - On unsuccessful login, returns `null`.

:::tip

Read more about connecting your users with the selected blockchain in the [Providers SDK Reference](/embedded-wallets/sdk/react).

:::

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/js/usage/connect.mdx, after:

---
title: connect & connectTo
sidebar_label: connect & connectTo
description: '@web3auth/modal Connect Functions | Embedded Wallets'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

Functions to connect users to Embedded Wallets in the browser.

### Import

```javascript
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
```

### Choosing the right connection method

You can connect users to Embedded Wallets in two main ways, depending on your application's needs:

- **Use `connect()`** when you want to display the default Embedded Wallets/Web3Auth modal. This is ideal if you want to provide users with a pre-built, user-friendly interface where they can choose from all available login options (for example, social logins, wallets) with minimal setup.

- **Use `connectTo(connector, params)`** when you want to build a fully custom login experience. This method lets you bypass the Web3Auth modal and connect directly to a specific wallet connector (such as Google, Facebook, or a particular wallet). Choose this if you want to design your own UI for login options, or if you want to restrict users to a specific authentication method. This method also allows you to use JWT-based login configurations.

**Summary:**

- Use `connect()` for the standard modal experience.
- Use `connectTo()` for custom UIs or direct connection to a specific login method.

### Usage

<Tabs
  defaultValue="basic"
  values={[
    { label: "Basic Modal", value: "basic" },
    { label: "Custom UI", value: "custom-ui" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="basic">

:::info

This is the most common way to connect to Embedded Wallets. It opens the Embedded Wallets/Web3Auth modal UI, allowing users to select from available login options.

:::

```javascript
// Initialize Web3Auth first
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  // Your configuration options
})

await web3auth.init()

// Show the modal and connect
const provider = await web3auth.connect()
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="custom-ui">

:::info

This method allows you to build your own custom connection UI. It bypasses the Embedded Wallets/Web3Auth modal UI, allowing you to create your own custom UI for login options. This can be useful if you want to hide Embedded Wallets from your end users.

:::

```javascript
import { WALLET_CONNECTORS, AUTH_CONNECTION } from '@web3auth/modal'

// Initialize Web3Auth first
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  // Your configuration options
})

await web3auth.init()

// Connect directly to Google
const provider = await web3auth.connectTo(WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH, {
  authConnection: AUTH_CONNECTION.GOOGLE,
})
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Return types

```tsx
connect(): Promise<IProvider | null>;
connectTo<T extends WALLET_CONNECTOR_TYPE>(connector: T, params?: LoginParamMap[T]): Promise<IProvider | null>;
```

#### Return values

- **IProvider | null**
  - On successful login, returns an `IProvider` instance containing the respective provider corresponding to your selected blockchain.
  - On unsuccessful login, returns `null`.

:::tip

Read more about connecting your users with the selected blockchain in the [providers SDK Reference](/embedded-wallets/sdk/react).

:::
