embedded-wallets/authentication/social-logins/discord.mdx, before:

---
title: Discord Social Login with Web3Auth
sidebar_label: Discord
description: 'Discord Social Login with Web3Auth | Embedded Wallets'
---

import DiscordToggle from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/authentication-social-connections.png'
import DiscordConnection from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/discord-connection.png'

Discord Login is a social login provider that allows users to sign in using their Discord credentials. Web3Auth supports Discord as a social login provider, allowing developers to offer a familiar and quick authentication method for users with Discord accounts.

To integrate Discord with Web3Auth, developers must first create a Discord App via the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

## Create a Discord app

1. Create a Discord [API application](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

2. Navigate to **OAuth2** from the sidebar, and paste the following as Redirect URI into the "Redirect URI" field.
   - https://auth.web3auth.io/auth

   ![Discord OAuth2.0 App Dashboard](/img/authentication/discord/discord-redirect-uri.png)

3. Don't forget to save your changes!

4. Next, obtain the **"Client ID"** from here. We will use this in our Web3Auth Dashboard.

   ![Discord OAuth2.0 App Client ID and Secret](/img/authentication/discord/discord-clientid-secret.png)

## Create a Discord Connection

:::success Enable on Dashboard

To use this feature, please enable `Discord` from the Social Connections section in the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).

> By default, Web3Auth uses its own pre-configured credentials for Discord login.

:::

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={DiscordToggle}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '800px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Toggle Discord Connection on Dashboard"
  />
</div>

Follow these steps to create a Discord connection:

1. Visit the [Web3Auth Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).
1. Go to the `Social Connections` section.
1. Click on the `Settings` icon near the Discord connection.
1. Enter the `Auth Connection ID`.
1. Enter the `Discord Client ID`.
1. Finally, click on the `Add Connection` button.

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={DiscordConnection}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '600px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Discord Connection"
  />
</div>

## Usage

Since, the `Discord Connection` details are available from Dashboard, developers don't need to pass any additional parameters to the `Web3AuthProvider`.

> Follow our [Quickstart Guide](/quick-start) to setup the basic flow.

### Login with Discord

```jsx
await connectTo(WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH, {
  authConnection: AUTH_CONNECTION.DISCORD,
  authConnectionId: 'w3a-discord-demo',
})
```

Commit message:

Web3Auth references to EW in authentication
Updated documentation to replace 'Web3Auth' with 'Embedded Wallets' throughout authentication and troubleshooting guides. Adjusted dashboard references, titles, descriptions, and internal links to reflect the new branding and clarify SDK naming conventions.

embedded-wallets/authentication/social-logins/discord.mdx, after:

---
title: Discord Social Login with Embedded Wallets
sidebar_label: Discord
description: 'Discord Social Login with Embedded Wallets | Embedded Wallets'
---

import DiscordToggle from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/authentication-social-connections.png'
import DiscordConnection from '@site/static/img/w3a-dashboard/discord-connection.png'

Discord Login is a social login provider that allows users to sign in using their Discord credentials. Web3Auth supports Discord as a social login provider, allowing developers to offer a familiar and quick authentication method for users with Discord accounts.

To integrate Discord with Web3Auth, developers must first create a Discord App via the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

## Create a Discord app

1. Create a Discord [API application](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

2. Navigate to **OAuth2** from the sidebar, and paste the following as Redirect URI into the "Redirect URI" field.
   - https://auth.web3auth.io/auth

   ![Discord OAuth2.0 App Dashboard](/img/authentication/discord/discord-redirect-uri.png)

3. Don't forget to save your changes!

4. Next, obtain the **"Client ID"** from here. We will use this in our Embedded Wallets Dashboard.

   ![Discord OAuth2.0 App Client ID and Secret](/img/authentication/discord/discord-clientid-secret.png)

## Create a Discord Connection

:::success Enable on Dashboard

To use this feature, please enable `Discord` from the Social Connections section in the [Embedded Wallets Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).

> By default, Web3Auth uses its own pre-configured credentials for Discord login.

:::

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={DiscordToggle}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '800px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Toggle Discord Connection on Dashboard"
  />
</div>

Follow these steps to create a Discord connection:

1. Visit the [Embedded Wallets Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).
1. Go to the `Social Connections` section.
1. Click on the `Settings` icon near the Discord connection.
1. Enter the `Auth Connection ID`.
1. Enter the `Discord Client ID`.
1. Finally, click on the `Add Connection` button.

<div style={{ display: 'flex', margin: '20px 0', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <img
    src={DiscordConnection}
    style={{
      maxWidth: '600px',
      borderRadius: '8px',
      boxShadow: '0 2px 6px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1)',
    }}
    alt="Discord Connection"
  />
</div>

## Usage

Since, the `Discord Connection` details are available from Dashboard, developers don't need to pass any additional parameters to the `Web3AuthProvider`.

> Follow our [Quickstart Guide](/quick-start) to setup the basic flow.

### Login with Discord

```jsx
await connectTo(WALLET_CONNECTORS.AUTH, {
  authConnection: AUTH_CONNECTION.DISCORD,
  authConnectionId: 'w3a-discord-demo',
})
```
