snaps/how-to/publish-a-snap.md, before:

---
description: Publish a Snap to npm.
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Publish a Snap

Snaps are npm packages, so publishing a Snap is as simple as publishing an npm package.
Refer to the [npm CLI documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-publish) for details
on publishing to the public registry.
The following details are specific to Snaps:

- The version in `package.json` and `snap.manifest.json` should match.
- The `repository.url` field in `package.json` should match the correct repository for your Snap.
- The `source.location.npm.packageName` in `snap.manifest.json` should match the name in `package.json`.
- The `proposedName` in `snap.manifest.json` should be a human-readable name and should not include
  the words "MetaMask" or "Snap."
- The image specified in `iconPath` in the manifest file is used as the icon displayed when
  installing the Snap, in custom dialogs, and in the settings menu.
  - This icon should be a valid SVG.
  - The icon will be cropped in a circle when displayed in MetaMask; you do not need to make the icon circular.

After publishing the Snap, any dapp can connect to the Snap by using the Snap ID `npm:[packageName]`.

:::caution
If you are using the Snap monorepo project generated in the [quickstart](../get-started/quickstart.md),
make sure to only publish the Snap package in `/packages/snap`.
You can use the [Snaps Simulator](https://metamask.github.io/snaps/snaps-simulator/staging/#/manifest) to verify
that your Snap was published correctly &mdash; just select **localhost** in the top right corner and change the
Snap location to **npm** and the ID of your Snap.

Also, make sure to update the manifest file, icon file, and README to differentiate your Snap from the template.
:::

## Make a Snap available to users

After publishing a Snap, you can make it available to MetaMask users by
[getting your Snap allowlisted](get-allowlisted.md).
Once allowlisted, anyone can install your Snap in the MetaMask extension.

Commit message:

Document Snaps sandbox and update CLI docs (#2030)
* Document Snaps sandbox and update CLI docs

* remove/replace Snaps Simulator

* replace easily

snaps/how-to/publish-a-snap.md, after:

---
description: Publish a Snap to npm.
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Publish a Snap

Snaps are npm packages, so publishing a Snap is as simple as publishing an npm package.
Refer to the [npm CLI documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-publish) for details
on publishing to the public registry.
The following details are specific to Snaps:

- The version in `package.json` and `snap.manifest.json` should match.
- The `repository.url` field in `package.json` should match the correct repository for your Snap.
- The `source.location.npm.packageName` in `snap.manifest.json` should match the name in `package.json`.
- The `proposedName` in `snap.manifest.json` should be a human-readable name and should not include
  the words "MetaMask" or "Snap."
- The image specified in `iconPath` in the manifest file is used as the icon displayed when
  installing the Snap, in custom dialogs, and in the settings menu.
  - This icon should be a valid SVG.
  - The icon will be cropped in a circle when displayed in MetaMask; you do not need to make the icon circular.

After publishing the Snap, any dapp can connect to the Snap by using the Snap ID `npm:[packageName]`.

:::caution
If you are using the Snap monorepo project generated in the [quickstart](../get-started/quickstart.md),
make sure to only publish the Snap package in `/packages/snap`.
You can use the [Snaps sandbox](test-a-snap.md#test-in-the-sandbox) to verify
that your Snap was published correctly: in the sandbox settings, disable **Use current Snap ID** and specify the npm ID of your Snap.

Also, make sure to update the manifest file, icon file, and README to differentiate your Snap from the template.
:::

## Make a Snap available to users

After publishing a Snap, you can make it available to MetaMask users by
[getting your Snap allowlisted](get-allowlisted.md).
Once allowlisted, anyone can install your Snap in the MetaMask extension.
