embedded-wallets/sdk/unity/advanced/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced Configuration
sidebar_label: Overview
description: 'Web3Auth Unity SDK - Advanced Configuration | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

The Web3Auth SDK provides extensive configuration options that allow you to customize authentication flows, UI appearance, blockchain integrations, and security features to meet your Unity application's specific requirements.

## Configuration Structure

When setting up Web3Auth, you'll pass in the options to the constructor. This consists of:

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

// focus-start
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
// focus-end
```

### `Web3AuthOptions`

The Web3Auth Constructor takes an object with `Web3AuthOptions` as input.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Class", value: "class" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientId`     | Your Web3Auth Client ID from the [Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/). It's a mandatory field of type `string`.                       |
| `network`      | Web3Auth Network: `SAPPHIRE_MAINNET`, `SAPPHIRE_DEVNET`, `MAINNET`, `CYAN`, `AQUA` or `TESTNET`. Mandatory field of type `Web3Auth.Network`. |
| `redirectUrl`  | URL that Web3Auth will redirect API responses upon successful authentication. It's a mandatory field of type `Uri`.                          |
| `whiteLabel?`  | WhiteLabel options for custom UI, branding, and translations. Takes `WhiteLabelData` as a value.                                             |
| `loginConfig?` | Login config for custom verifiers. Takes `LoginConfigItem` as a value.                                                                       |
| `mfaSettings?` | Configure MFA settings for authentication. Takes `MfaSettings` as a value.                                                                   |
| `sessionTime?` | Configure session management time in seconds. Default is 86400 seconds (1 day). Max 30 days.                                                 |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="class">

```cs
public class Web3AuthOptions
{
    public string clientId { get; set; }
    public Web3Auth.Network network { get; set; }
    public Uri redirectUrl { get; set; }
    public WhiteLabelData whiteLabel { get; set; }
    public LoginConfigItem loginConfig { get; set; }
    public MfaSettings mfaSettings { get; set; }
    public int sessionTime { get; set; } = 86400;
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Session Management

Control how long users stay authenticated and how sessions persist in Unity.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `sessionTime` - Session duration in seconds. Controls how long users remain authenticated before needing to log in again.
  - Minimum: 1 second (`1`).
  - Maximum: 30 days (`86400 * 30`).
  - Default: 1 day (`86400`).

```cs
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
    sessionTime = 86400 * 7, // 7 days (in seconds)
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
```

## Custom Authentication Methods

Control the login options presented to your users. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Custom Authentication](./custom-authentication.mdx) section.

## UI Customization

Create a seamless brand experience by customizing the Web3Auth Login Screens to match your Unity application's design. For complete customization options, refer to the [Whitelabeling & UI Customization](./whitelabel.mdx) section.

## Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

Add additional security layers to protect user accounts with two-factor authentication. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Multi-Factor Authentication](./mfa.mdx) section.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `mfaSettings` - Configure MFA settings for different authentication flows
- `mfaLevel` - Control when users are prompted to set up MFA

## DApp Share

Share authentication sessions across different applications. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [DApp Share](./dapp-share.mdx) section.

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/unity/advanced/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced Configuration
sidebar_label: Overview
description: 'Web3Auth Unity SDK - Advanced Configuration | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

The Embedded Wallets SDK provides extensive configuration options that allow you to customize authentication flows, UI appearance, blockchain integrations, and security features to meet your Unity application's specific requirements.

## Configuration structure

When setting up Web3Auth, you'll pass in the options to the constructor. This consists of:

```cs
web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();

// focus-start
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable // Get your Client ID from Web3Auth Dashboard
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET, // or Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_DEVNET
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
// focus-end
```

### `Web3AuthOptions`

The Web3Auth Constructor takes an object with `Web3AuthOptions` as input.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Class", value: "class" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter      | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientId`     | Your Web3Auth Client ID from the [Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/). It's a mandatory field of type `string`.                       |
| `network`      | Web3Auth Network: `SAPPHIRE_MAINNET`, `SAPPHIRE_DEVNET`, `MAINNET`, `CYAN`, `AQUA` or `TESTNET`. Mandatory field of type `Web3Auth.Network`. |
| `redirectUrl`  | URL that Web3Auth will redirect API responses upon successful authentication. It's a mandatory field of type `Uri`.                          |
| `whiteLabel?`  | Whitelabel options for custom UI, branding, and translations. Takes `WhiteLabelData` as a value.                                             |
| `loginConfig?` | Login config for custom verifiers. Takes `LoginConfigItem` as a value.                                                                       |
| `mfaSettings?` | Configure MFA settings for authentication. Takes `MfaSettings` as a value.                                                                   |
| `sessionTime?` | Configure session management time in seconds. Default is 86400 seconds (1 day). Max 30 days.                                                 |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="class">

```cs
public class Web3AuthOptions
{
    public string clientId { get; set; }
    public Web3Auth.Network network { get; set; }
    public Uri redirectUrl { get; set; }
    public WhiteLabelData whiteLabel { get; set; }
    public LoginConfigItem loginConfig { get; set; }
    public MfaSettings mfaSettings { get; set; }
    public int sessionTime { get; set; } = 86400;
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Session management

Control how long users stay authenticated and how sessions persist in Unity.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `sessionTime` - Session duration in seconds. Controls how long users remain authenticated before needing to log in again.
  - Minimum: 1 second (`1`).
  - Maximum: 30 days (`86400 * 30`).
  - Default: 1 day (`86400`).

```cs
web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions(){
    clientId = "YOUR_WEB3AUTH_CLIENT_ID", // Pass your Web3Auth Client ID, ideally using an environment variable
    network = Web3Auth.Network.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
    sessionTime = 86400 * 7, // 7 days (in seconds)
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
});
```

## Custom authentication methods

Control the login options presented to your users. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [custom authentication](./custom-authentication.mdx) section.

## UI customization

Create a seamless brand experience by customizing the Embedded Wallets login screens to match your Unity application's design. For complete customization options, refer to the [whitelabeling and UI customization](./whitelabel.mdx) section.

## Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

Add additional security layers to protect user accounts with two-factor authentication. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [Multi-Factor Authentication](./mfa.mdx) section.

**Key Configuration Options:**

- `mfaSettings` - Configure MFA settings for different authentication flows
- `mfaLevel` - Control when users are prompted to set up MFA

## Dapp share

Share authentication sessions across different applications. For detailed configuration options and implementation examples, see the [dapp share](./dapp-share.mdx) section.
