embedded-wallets/sdk/unity/advanced/whitelabel.mdx, before:

---
title: Whitelabel PnP Unity SDK
sidebar_label: Whitelabel
description: 'Web3Auth PnP Unity SDK - Whitelabel | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import WhiteLabelShowcase from '../../_common/_whitelabel_showcase.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'
import WhitelabelingNote from '../../_common/_whitelabeling_note.mdx'

Web3Auth allows complete whitelabeling with application branding for a consistent user experience. You can customize three different aspects:

- **UI elements**: Customize the appearance of modals and components
- **Branding**: Apply your brand colors, logos, and themes
- **Translations**: Localize the interface for your users

<WhitelabelingNote />

<GrowthPlanNote />

## Customizing the Web3Auth Login Screens

For defining custom UI, branding, and translations for your branded app, you just need to add an additional parameter within the `Web3AuthOptions` class called `whiteLabel`. This parameter takes another object called `WhiteLabelData`.

### `WhiteLabelData`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `appName?` | Display name for the app in the UI. |
| `logoLight?` | App logo to be used in dark mode. It accepts url in `string` as a value. |
| `logoDark?` | App logo to be used in light mode. It accepts url in `string` as a value. |
| `defaultLanguage?` | Language which will be used by Web3Auth, app will use browser language if not specified. Default language is `Web3Auth.Language.en`. Checkout `Web3Auth.Language` for supported languages. |
| `mode?` | Theme mode for the login modal. Choose between `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.auto`, `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.light` or `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.dark` background modes. Default value is `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.light`. |
| `theme?` | Used to customize the theme of the login modal. It accepts ` Dictionary<string, string>` as a value. |
| `appUrl?` | Url to be used in the Modal. It accepts url in `string` as a value. |
| `useLogoLoader?` | Use logo loader. If `logoDark` and `logoLight` are null, the default Web3Auth logo will be used for the loader. Default value is false. |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```cs
public class WhiteLabelData {
  public string? appName { get; set; }
  public string? logoLight { get; set; }
  public string? logoDark { get; set; }
  public Web3Auth.Language? defaultLanguage { get; set; } = Web3Auth.Language.en;
  public Web3Auth.ThemeModes? mode { get; set; } = Web3Auth.ThemeModes.light;
  public Dictionary<string, string>? theme { get; set; }
  public string? appUrl { get; set; }
  public bool? useLogoLoader { get; set; } = false;
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<WhiteLabelShowcase />

### Example

```cs
void Start()
{
  web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();
  web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions()
  {
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
    clientId = "BAwFgL-r7wzQKmtcdiz2uHJKNZdK7gzEf2q-m55xfzSZOw8jLOyIi4AVvvzaEQO5nv2dFLEmf9LBkF8kaq3aErg",
    network = Web3Auth.Network.TESTNET,
    // focus-start
    whiteLabel = new WhiteLabelData() {
      appName = "Web3Auth Sample App",
      logoLight = null,
      logoDark = null,
      defaultLanguage = "en",
      mode = "dark",
      theme = new Dictionary < string, string > {
        {
          "primary",
          "#d53f8c"
        }
      }
    }
    // focus-end

  });
}
```

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/unity/advanced/whitelabel.mdx, after:

---
title: Whitelabel PnP Unity SDK
sidebar_label: Whitelabel
description: 'Web3Auth PnP Unity SDK - Whitelabel | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import WhiteLabelShowcase from '../../_common/_whitelabel_showcase.mdx'
import GrowthPlanNote from '../../_common/_growth_plan_note.mdx'
import WhitelabelingNote from '../../_common/_whitelabeling_note.mdx'

Embedded Wallets supports whitelabeling with application branding for a consistent user experience. You can customize three different aspects:

- **UI elements:** Customize the appearance of modals and components
- **Branding:** Apply your brand colors, logos, and themes
- **Translations:** Localize the interface for your users

<WhitelabelingNote />

<GrowthPlanNote />

## Customizing the Embedded Wallets login screens

For defining custom UI, branding, and translations for your branded app, you just need to add an additional parameter within the `Web3AuthOptions` class called `whiteLabel`. This parameter takes another object called `WhiteLabelData`.

### `WhiteLabelData`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="table"
  values={[
    { label: "Table", value: "table" },
    { label: "Interface", value: "interface" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="table">

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `appName?` | Display name for the app in the UI. |
| `logoLight?` | App logo to be used in dark mode. It accepts URL as string. |
| `logoDark?` | App logo to be used in light mode. It accepts URL as string. |
| `defaultLanguage?` | Language which will be used by Web3Auth, app will use browser language if not specified. Default language is `Web3Auth.Language.en`. Checkout `Web3Auth.Language` for supported languages. |
| `mode?` | Theme mode for the login modal. Choose between `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.auto`, `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.light` or `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.dark` background modes. Default value is `Web3Auth.ThemeModes.light`. |
| `theme?` | Used to customize the theme of the login modal. It accepts ` Dictionary<string, string>` as a value. |
| `appUrl?` | URL to be used in the modal. It accepts URL as string. |
| `useLogoLoader?` | Use logo loader. If `logoDark` and `logoLight` are null, the default Web3Auth logo will be used for the loader. Default value is false. |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="interface">

```cs
public class WhiteLabelData {
  public string? appName { get; set; }
  public string? logoLight { get; set; }
  public string? logoDark { get; set; }
  public Web3Auth.Language? defaultLanguage { get; set; } = Web3Auth.Language.en;
  public Web3Auth.ThemeModes? mode { get; set; } = Web3Auth.ThemeModes.light;
  public Dictionary<string, string>? theme { get; set; }
  public string? appUrl { get; set; }
  public bool? useLogoLoader { get; set; } = false;
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<WhiteLabelShowcase />

### Example

```cs
void Start()
{
  web3Auth = GetComponent<Web3Auth>();
  web3Auth.setOptions(new Web3AuthOptions()
  {
    redirectUrl = new Uri("torusapp://com.torus.Web3AuthUnity/auth"),
    clientId = "BAwFgL-r7wzQKmtcdiz2uHJKNZdK7gzEf2q-m55xfzSZOw8jLOyIi4AVvvzaEQO5nv2dFLEmf9LBkF8kaq3aErg",
    network = Web3Auth.Network.TESTNET,
    // focus-start
    whiteLabel = new WhiteLabelData() {
      appName = "Web3Auth Sample App",
      logoLight = null,
      logoDark = null,
      defaultLanguage = "en",
      mode = "dark",
      theme = new Dictionary < string, string > {
        {
          "primary",
          "#d53f8c"
        }
      }
    }
    // focus-end

  });
}
```
