---
description: Learn about MetaMask ERC-7715 permissions.
keywords: [ERC-7715, 7715, permissions, wallet, smart account]
---

# ERC-7715 permissions

The Delegation Toolkit supports [ERC-7715](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7715), which lets you request fine-grained permissions from a MetaMask user to execute transactions on their behalf.
For example, a user can grant your dapp permission to spend 10 USDC per day to buy ETH over the course of a month.
Once the permission is granted, your dapp can use the allocated 10 USDC each day to purchase ETH directly from the MetaMask user's account.

ERC-7715 eliminates the need for users to approve every transaction, which is useful for highly interactive dapps.
It also enables dapps to execute transactions for users without an active wallet connection.

:::note
This feature requires [MetaMask Flask 12.14.2](/snaps/get-started/install-flask) or later.
:::

## ERC-7715 technical overview

[ERC-7715](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7715) defines a JSON-RPC method `wallet_grantPermissions`. Dapps can use this method to request a wallet to grant the dapp permission to execute transactions on a user's behalf.
`wallet_grantPermissions` includes a `signer` parameter, which identifies the entity requesting or managing the permission.
Common signer implementations include wallet signers, single key and multisig signers, and account signers.

The Delegation Toolkit's implementation uses an account signer.
A session account is created and used for the single purpose of requesting and redeeming ERC-7715 permissions, and does not contain tokens.
The account can be granted with permissions and redeem them as specified in [ERC-7710](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7710).
The account can be a smart account or an externally owned account (EOA).


The MetaMask user that the session account requests permissions from must be upgraded to a [MetaMask smart account](smart-accounts.md).

:::info ERC-7715 vs. delegations
ERC-7715 expands on regular [delegations](delegation/index.md) by enabling permission sharing *via the MetaMask browser extension*.
Regular delegations cannot be signed through the MetaMask extension, because if a dapp requests a delegation without constraints, the whole wallet can be exposed to the dapp.
In contrast, ERC-7715 requires a [permission type](#permission-types) which displays a readable confirmation for the MetaMask user.
:::

## ERC-7715 permissions lifecycle

The ERC-7715 permissions lifecycle is as follows:

1. **Set up a session account** - Set up a session account to execute transactions on behalf of the MetaMask user.
  It can be a [smart account](smart-accounts.md) or an externally owned account (EOA).

2. **Request permissions** - Request permissions from the user.
  MetaMask supports multiple ERC-7715 [permission types](#permission-types).

3. **Set up a Viem client** - Set up a Viem client (the client type depends on the session account type) to redeem permissions.

4. **Redeem permissions** - Once the permission is granted, the session account redeems the permission.

See [how to perform executions on a MetaMask user's behalf](../guides/erc7715/execute-on-metamask-user-behalf.md) to get started with the ERC-7715 lifecycle.

## Permission types

The Delegation Toolkit currently supports the following types of ERC-7715 permissions:

- **Native token permissions** - Define how dapps can use users' native tokens.

- **ERC-20 token permissions** - Define how dapps can use users' ERC-20 tokens.
