embedded-wallets/features/server-side-verification.mdx, before:

---
title: Server-Side Verification
sidebar_label: Server-Side Verification
description: 'Server-Side Verification | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import Tiles from '@theme/Tiles'

Server-side verification enables developers to securely authenticate users on the backend by validating the ownership of a wallet address. This process involves the use of a `JSON Web Token (JWT)` issued upon user authentication, which contains claims about the end user, including proof of ownership over a wallet public address.

Upon a user's successful connection of their wallet, Web3Auth generates a `JWT`, signed with a private key using the `ES256` algorithm, that is unique to your application. This token serves as a verifiable credential that you can use to authenticate the user on your backend.

## Implementing Server-Side Verification

To implement server-side verification, follow these 3 simple steps:

### 1. Retrieve the `JWT` (`idToken`)

When a user logs in through Web3Auth, a `JWT` can be generated to prove that the user owns the wallet, and you can verify it on your backend server.

**Different Flows for Different Wallets:**

- **Social Logins**: These tokens include a public key linked to the user's wallet.
- **External Wallets**: These tokens include the wallet address instead of the public key.

### 2. Verify the `JWT`

Use the public key/address provided to verify the `JWT`'s authenticity. This step confirms that the token is valid and the information it contains about the user can be trusted.

### 3. Authenticate the User

Based on the verified claims within the `JWT`, including wallet address ownership, authenticate the user in your backend system.

:::info

Head over to our [Identity Token](/embedded-wallets/authentication/id-token) documentation to learn more about the `JWT` and how to verify it.

:::

Commit message:

style pass over features (#2602)
Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <yashovardhan.agrawal@gmail.com>

embedded-wallets/features/server-side-verification.mdx, after:

---
title: Server-Side Verification
sidebar_label: Server-Side Verification
description: 'Server-Side Verification | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import Tiles from '@theme/Tiles'

Server-side verification enables developers to securely authenticate users on the backend by validating the ownership of a wallet address. This process involves the use of a `JSON Web Token (JWT)` issued upon user authentication, which contains claims about the end user, including proof of ownership over a wallet public address.

Upon a user's successful connection of their wallet, Web3Auth generates a `JWT`, signed with a private key using the `ES256` algorithm, that is unique to your application. This token serves as a verifiable credential that you can use to authenticate the user on your backend.

## Implementing server-side verification

To implement server-side verification, follow these 3 steps:

### Step 1. Retrieve the `JWT` (`idToken`)

When a user logs in through Web3Auth, a `JWT` can be generated to prove that the user owns the wallet, and you can verify it on your backend server.

**Different Flows for Different Wallets:**

- **Social logins**: These tokens include a public key linked to the user's wallet.
- **External wallets**: These tokens include the wallet address instead of the public key.

### Step 2. Verify the `JWT`

Use the public key/address provided to verify the `JWT`'s authenticity. This step confirms that the token is valid and the information it contains about the user can be trusted.

### Step 3. Authenticate the user

Based on the verified claims within the `JWT`, including wallet address ownership, authenticate the user in your backend system.

## Next steps

See the [Identity Token](/embedded-wallets/authentication/id-token) documentation to learn more about the `JWT` and how to verify it.
