delegation-toolkit/concepts/delegation/caveat-enforcers.md, before:

---
description: Learn about caveat enforcers and how they restrict delegations.
keywords: [caveats, caveat enforcers, delegation]
---

# Caveat enforcers

The MetaMask Delegation Toolkit provides *caveat enforcers*, which are smart contracts that implement rules and restrictions (*caveats*) on delegations.
They serve as the underlying mechanism that enables conditional execution within the [Delegation Framework](./index.md#delegation-framework).

A caveat enforcer acts as a gate that validates whether a delegation can be used for a particular execution. When a delegate attempts to execute an action on behalf of a delegator, each caveat enforcer specified in the delegation evaluates whether the execution meets its defined criteria.

:::warning Important
- Without caveat enforcers, a delegation has infinite and unbounded authority to make any execution the original account can make.
  We strongly recommend using caveat enforcers.
- Caveat enforcers safeguard the execution process but do not guarantee a final state post-redemption.
  Always consider the full impact of combined caveat enforcers.
:::

## Smart contract interface

Caveat enforcers are Solidity contracts that implement the [`ICaveatEnforcer`](https://github.com/MetaMask/delegation-framework/blob/main/src/interfaces/ICaveatEnforcer.sol) interface:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT AND Apache-2.0
pragma solidity 0.8.23;

import { ModeCode } from "../utils/Types.sol";

/**
 * This is an abstract contract that exposes pre and post Execution hooks during delegation redemption.
 */
interface ICaveatEnforcer {
  /**
   * Enforces conditions before any actions in a batch redemption process begin.
   */
  function beforeAllHook(
    bytes calldata _terms, // The terms to enforce set by the delegator.
    bytes calldata _args, // An optional input parameter set by the redeemer at time of invocation.
    ModeCode _mode, // The mode of execution for the executionCalldata.
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata, // The data representing the execution.
    bytes32 _delegationHash, // The hash of the delegation.
    address _delegator, // The address of the delegator.
    address _redeemer // The address that is redeeming the delegation.
)
    external;

  /**
   * Enforces conditions before the execution tied to a specific delegation in the redemption process.
   */
  function beforeHook(
    bytes calldata _terms,
    bytes calldata _args,
    ModeCode _mode,
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata,
    bytes32 _delegationHash,
    address _delegator,
    address _redeemer
  )
    external;

  /**
   * Enforces conditions after the execution tied to a specific delegation in the redemption process.
   */
  function afterHook(
    bytes calldata _terms,
    bytes calldata _args,
    ModeCode _mode,
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata,
    bytes32 _delegationHash,
    address _delegator,
    address _redeemer
  )
    external;

  /**
   * Enforces conditions after all actions in a batch redemption process have been executed.
   */
  function afterAllHook(
    bytes calldata _terms,
    bytes calldata _args,
    ModeCode _mode,
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata,
    bytes32 _delegationHash,
    address _delegator,
    address _redeemer
  )
    external;
}
```

The interface consists of four key hook functions that are called at different stages of the delegation redemption process:

1. **`beforeAllHook`**: Called before any actions in a batch redemption process begin. This can be used to verify conditions that must be true for the entire batch execution.

2. **`beforeHook`**: Called before the execution tied to a specific delegation. This allows for pre-execution validation of conditions specific to that delegation.

3. **`afterHook`**: Called after the execution tied to a specific delegation completes. This can verify post-execution state changes or effects specific to that delegation.

4. **`afterAllHook`**: Called after all actions in a batch redemption process have completed. This enables verification of final conditions after the entire batch has executed.

Each of these hooks receives comprehensive information about the execution context, including:
- The caveat terms specified by the delegator.
- Optional arguments provided by the redeemer.
- The execution mode and calldata.
- The delegation hash.
- The delegator and redeemer addresses.

### Caveat enforcer rejection

The most important safety feature of these hooks is their ability to block executions:

- If any hook determines its conditions aren't met, it will **revert** (throw an exception).
- When a reversion occurs, the entire delegation redemption process is canceled.
- This prevents partial or invalid executions from occurring.
- No state changes from the attempted execution will be committed to the blockchain.

This "all-or-nothing" approach ensures that delegations only execute exactly as intended by their caveats.

## Caveat builder

While caveat enforcers operate at the smart contract level, most developers interact with them through the `CaveatBuilder` interface in the MetaMask Delegation Toolkit.

The `CaveatBuilder` provides a developer-friendly TypeScript API that:

- Abstracts away the complexity of correctly formatting and encoding caveat terms.
- Provides type-checking and validation for caveat parameters.
- Handles the creation of the `caveats` array needed when creating a delegation.

Each [caveat type](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md) in the `CaveatBuilder`
corresponds to a specific caveat enforcer contract. For example, when you use:

```typescript
caveatBuilder.addCaveat("allowedTargets", ["0xc11F3a8E5C7D16b75c9E2F60d26f5321C6Af5E92"]);
```

The builder is creating a caveat that references the
[`AllowedTargetsEnforcer`](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md#allowedtargets) contract address and
properly encodes the provided addresses as terms for that enforcer.

## Caveat enforcer best practices

When designing delegations with caveats, consider these best practices:

- **Combine caveat enforcers appropriately** - Use multiple caveat enforcers to create comprehensive restrictions.
   
- **Consider caveat enforcer order** - When using caveat enforcers that modify external contract states, the order matters.
  For example, using [`NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer`](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md#nativetokenpayment) before
  [`NativeBalanceChangeEnforcer`](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md#nativebalancechange) might cause validation failures.

- **Be careful with unbounded delegations** - Always include appropriate caveat enforcers to limit what a delegate can do.

## Available caveat enforcers

The Delegation Toolkit provides [out-of-the-box caveat enforcers](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md)
for common restriction patterns, including:

- Limiting target addresses and methods.
- Setting time or block number constraints.
- Restricting token transfers and approvals.
- Limiting execution frequency.

For other restriction patterns, you can also [create custom caveat enforcers](/tutorials/create-custom-caveat-enforcer) by implementing the `ICaveatEnforcer` interface.

## Attenuating authority with redelegations

When creating chains of delegations via [redelegations](./index.md#delegation-types), it's important to understand how authority flows and can be restricted.

Caveats applied to a chain of delegations are *accumulative*—they stack on top of each other:

- Each delegation in the chain inherits all restrictions from its parent delegation.
- New caveats can add further restrictions, but can't remove existing ones.

This means that a delegate can only redelegate with equal or lesser authority than they received.

### Example: Narrowing permissions

Imagine a simple financial delegation scenario:

1. **Alice delegates to Bob**, allowing him to withdraw up to 100 USDC on her behalf.
2. **Bob re-delegates to Carol**, but limits the permission to:
   - Only 50 USDC (reducing the amount).
   - Only before the end of the week (adding a time constraint).

Carol now has a more restricted version of Alice's original delegation. Bob couldn't give Carol more authority than he had (such as allowing her to withdraw 200 USDC), but he could narrow the permission.

Commit message:

Prepare content for Smart Accounts Kit
* rebrand delegation toolkit to smart accounts kit

* fix broken links

* udpate getDeleGatorEnvironment docs

* revert url changes and clean up

* minor fixes

* fix anchor link

---------

Co-authored-by: Alexandra Carrillo <alexandra.carrillo@consensys.net>

delegation-toolkit/concepts/delegation/caveat-enforcers.md, after:

---
description: Learn about caveat enforcers and how they restrict delegations.
keywords: [caveats, caveat enforcers, delegation]
---

# Caveat enforcers

The Smart Accounts Kit provides *caveat enforcers*, which are smart contracts that implement rules and restrictions (*caveats*) on delegations.
They serve as the underlying mechanism that enables conditional execution within the [Delegation Framework](./index.md#delegation-framework).

A caveat enforcer acts as a gate that validates whether a delegation can be used for a particular execution. When a delegate attempts to execute an action on behalf of a delegator, each caveat enforcer specified in the delegation evaluates whether the execution meets its defined criteria.

:::warning Important
- Without caveat enforcers, a delegation has infinite and unbounded authority to make any execution the original account can make.
  We strongly recommend using caveat enforcers.
- Caveat enforcers safeguard the execution process but do not guarantee a final state post-redemption.
  Always consider the full impact of combined caveat enforcers.
:::

## Smart contract interface

Caveat enforcers are Solidity contracts that implement the [`ICaveatEnforcer`](https://github.com/MetaMask/delegation-framework/blob/main/src/interfaces/ICaveatEnforcer.sol) interface:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT AND Apache-2.0
pragma solidity 0.8.23;

import { ModeCode } from "../utils/Types.sol";

/**
 * This is an abstract contract that exposes pre and post Execution hooks during delegation redemption.
 */
interface ICaveatEnforcer {
  /**
   * Enforces conditions before any actions in a batch redemption process begin.
   */
  function beforeAllHook(
    bytes calldata _terms, // The terms to enforce set by the delegator.
    bytes calldata _args, // An optional input parameter set by the redeemer at time of invocation.
    ModeCode _mode, // The mode of execution for the executionCalldata.
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata, // The data representing the execution.
    bytes32 _delegationHash, // The hash of the delegation.
    address _delegator, // The address of the delegator.
    address _redeemer // The address that is redeeming the delegation.
)
    external;

  /**
   * Enforces conditions before the execution tied to a specific delegation in the redemption process.
   */
  function beforeHook(
    bytes calldata _terms,
    bytes calldata _args,
    ModeCode _mode,
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata,
    bytes32 _delegationHash,
    address _delegator,
    address _redeemer
  )
    external;

  /**
   * Enforces conditions after the execution tied to a specific delegation in the redemption process.
   */
  function afterHook(
    bytes calldata _terms,
    bytes calldata _args,
    ModeCode _mode,
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata,
    bytes32 _delegationHash,
    address _delegator,
    address _redeemer
  )
    external;

  /**
   * Enforces conditions after all actions in a batch redemption process have been executed.
   */
  function afterAllHook(
    bytes calldata _terms,
    bytes calldata _args,
    ModeCode _mode,
    bytes calldata _executionCalldata,
    bytes32 _delegationHash,
    address _delegator,
    address _redeemer
  )
    external;
}
```

The interface consists of four key hook functions that are called at different stages of the delegation redemption process:

1. **`beforeAllHook`**: Called before any actions in a batch redemption process begin. This can be used to verify conditions that must be true for the entire batch execution.

2. **`beforeHook`**: Called before the execution tied to a specific delegation. This allows for pre-execution validation of conditions specific to that delegation.

3. **`afterHook`**: Called after the execution tied to a specific delegation completes. This can verify post-execution state changes or effects specific to that delegation.

4. **`afterAllHook`**: Called after all actions in a batch redemption process have completed. This enables verification of final conditions after the entire batch has executed.

Each of these hooks receives comprehensive information about the execution context, including:
- The caveat terms specified by the delegator.
- Optional arguments provided by the redeemer.
- The execution mode and calldata.
- The delegation hash.
- The delegator and redeemer addresses.

### Caveat enforcer rejection

The most important safety feature of these hooks is their ability to block executions:

- If any hook determines its conditions aren't met, it will **revert** (throw an exception).
- When a reversion occurs, the entire delegation redemption process is canceled.
- This prevents partial or invalid executions from occurring.
- No state changes from the attempted execution will be committed to the blockchain.

This "all-or-nothing" approach ensures that delegations only execute exactly as intended by their caveats.

## Caveat builder

While caveat enforcers operate at the smart contract level, most developers interact with them through the `CaveatBuilder` interface in the Smart Accounts Kit.

The `CaveatBuilder` provides a developer-friendly TypeScript API that:

- Abstracts away the complexity of correctly formatting and encoding caveat terms.
- Provides type-checking and validation for caveat parameters.
- Handles the creation of the `caveats` array needed when creating a delegation.

Each [caveat type](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md) in the `CaveatBuilder`
corresponds to a specific caveat enforcer contract. For example, when you use:

```typescript
caveatBuilder.addCaveat("allowedTargets", ["0xc11F3a8E5C7D16b75c9E2F60d26f5321C6Af5E92"]);
```

The builder is creating a caveat that references the
[`AllowedTargetsEnforcer`](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md#allowedtargets) contract address and
properly encodes the provided addresses as terms for that enforcer.

## Caveat enforcer best practices

When designing delegations with caveats, consider these best practices:

- **Combine caveat enforcers appropriately** - Use multiple caveat enforcers to create comprehensive restrictions.
   
- **Consider caveat enforcer order** - When using caveat enforcers that modify external contract states, the order matters.
  For example, using [`NativeTokenPaymentEnforcer`](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md#nativetokenpayment) before
  [`NativeBalanceChangeEnforcer`](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md#nativebalancechange) might cause validation failures.

- **Be careful with unbounded delegations** - Always include appropriate caveat enforcers to limit what a delegate can do.

## Available caveat enforcers

The Smart Accounts Kit provides [out-of-the-box caveat enforcers](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md)
for common restriction patterns, including:

- Limiting target addresses and methods.
- Setting time or block number constraints.
- Restricting token transfers and approvals.
- Limiting execution frequency.

For other restriction patterns, you can also [create custom caveat enforcers](/tutorials/create-custom-caveat-enforcer) by implementing the `ICaveatEnforcer` interface.

## Attenuating authority with redelegations

When creating chains of delegations via [redelegations](./index.md#delegation-types), it's important to understand how authority flows and can be restricted.

Caveats applied to a chain of delegations are *accumulative*—they stack on top of each other:

- Each delegation in the chain inherits all restrictions from its parent delegation.
- New caveats can add further restrictions, but can't remove existing ones.

This means that a delegate can only redelegate with equal or lesser authority than they received.

### Example: Narrowing permissions

Imagine a simple financial delegation scenario:

1. **Alice delegates to Bob**, allowing him to withdraw up to 100 USDC on her behalf.
2. **Bob re-delegates to Carol**, but limits the permission to:
   - Only 50 USDC (reducing the amount).
   - Only before the end of the week (adding a time constraint).

Carol now has a more restricted version of Alice's original delegation. Bob couldn't give Carol more authority than he had (such as allowing her to withdraw 200 USDC), but he could narrow the permission.
