embedded-wallets/sdk/android/migration-guides/android-v5-to-v6.mdx, before:

---
title: Android SDK - v5 to v6

description: 'Android SDK - v5 to v6 | Embedded Wallets'
sidebar_label: v5 to v6
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

# Migration Guide from v5 to v6 for Web3Auth Android SDK

## Overview

This migration guide provides steps for upgrading from version 5(v5) to version 6(v6) of the Web3Auth Android SDK. The guide outlines significant changes and enhancements, including the introduction of `enableMFA` method to initiate MFA setup flow, and `launchWalletServices` method for template wallet interface.

## Changes in Detail

### `enableMFA` method

From v6, developers can use the `enableMFA` method to initiate MFA setup flow for already logged in users.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="default-verifier"
  values={[
    { label: "Default Verifier", value: "default-verifier" },
    { label: "Custom JWT Verifier", value: "custom-jwt-verifier" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value = "default-verifier">

```kotlin title="Usage"
import android.widget.Button
import com.web3auth.core.Web3Auth
import android.os.Bundle

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() { private lateinit var web3Auth: Web3Auth

     private fun enableMFA() {
       // focus-next-line
       val completableFuture = web3Auth.enableMFA()

        completableFuture.whenComplete{_, error ->
            if (error == null) {
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", "Launched successfully")
                // Add your logic
            } else {
                // Add your logic on error
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", error.message ?: "Something went wrong")
            }
        }
    }

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        ...
        // Setup UI and event handlers
        val enableMFAButton = findViewById<Button>(R.id.enableMFAButton)
        enableMFAButton.setOnClickListener { enableMFA() }
        ...
    }
    ...

}

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="custom-jwt-verifier">

```kotlin title="Usage"
import android.widget.Button
import com.web3auth.core.Web3Auth
import android.os.Bundle

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() { private lateinit var web3Auth: Web3Auth

     private fun enableMFA() {
        val loginParams = LoginParams(
            Provider.JWT,
            extraLoginOptions = ExtraLoginOptions(id_token = "your_jwt_token")
        )

        // focus-next-line
        val completableFuture = web3Auth.enableMFA(loginParams)

        completableFuture.whenComplete{_, error ->
            if (error == null) {
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", "Launched successfully")
                // Add your logic
            } else {
                // Add your logic on error
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", error.message ?: "Something went wrong")
            }
        }
    }

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        ...
        // Setup UI and event handlers
        val enableMFAButton = findViewById<Button>(R.id.enableMFAButton)
        enableMFAButton.setOnClickListener { enableMFA() }
        ...
    }
    ...

}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### `launchWalletServices` method

From v6, developers can use the `launchWalletServices` to launches a WebView which allows them to use the templated wallet UI services. Developers can pass the `ChainConfig` to open wallet services with a specific chain selected.

:::note

Access to Wallet Services is gated. You can use this feature in `sapphire_devnet` for free. The minimum [pricing plan](https://web3auth.io/pricing.html) to use this feature in a production environment is the **Scale Plan**.

:::

#### ChainConfig Arguments

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `chainNamespace` | Custom configuration for your preferred blockchain. As of now only EVM supported. Default value is `ChainNamespace.EIP155`. |
| `decimals?` | Number of decimals for the currency ticker. Default value is 18, and accepts `Int` as value. |
| `blockExplorerUrl?` | Blockchain's explorer URL. (eg: `https://etherscan.io`) |
| `chainId` | The chain id of the selected blockchain in hex `String`. |
| `displayName?` | Display Name for the chain. |
| `logo?` | Logo for the selected `chainNamespace` & `chainId`. |
| `rpcTarget` | RPC Target URL for the selected `chainNamespace` & `chainId`. |
| `ticker?` | Default currency ticker of the network (e.g: `ETH`) |
| `tickerName?` | Name for currency ticker (e.g: `Ethereum`) |

#### Usage

```kotlin title="Usage"
// focus-start
val launchWalletCompletableFuture = web3Auth.launchWalletServices(
    loginParams = LoginParams(
        selectedLoginProvider,
        extraLoginOptions = null,
        mfaLevel = MFALevel.NONE,
    ),

    chainConfig = ChainConfig(
        chainId = "0x1",
        rpcTarget = "https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/$key",
        ticker = "ETH",
        chainNamespace = ChainNamespace.EIP155
    )
)
// focus-end

launchWalletCompletableFuture.whenComplete { _, error ->
    if (error == null) {
        Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", "Wallet launched successfully")
    } else {
        Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", error.message ?: "Something went wrong")
    }
}
```

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/android/migration-guides/android-v5-to-v6.mdx, after:

---
title: Android SDK - v5 to v6

description: 'Android SDK - v5 to v6 | Embedded Wallets'
sidebar_label: v5 to v6
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

# Migration guide from v5 to v6 for Embedded Wallets Android SDK

## Overview

This migration guide provides steps for upgrading from version 5 (v5) to version 6 (v6) of the Embedded Wallets Android SDK. The guide outlines significant changes and enhancements, including the introduction of `enableMFA` method to initiate MFA setup flow, and `launchWalletServices` method for template wallet interface.

## Changes in detail

### `enableMFA` method

From v6, developers can use the `enableMFA` method to initiate MFA setup flow for already logged in users.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="default-verifier"
  values={[
    { label: "Default Verifier", value: "default-verifier" },
    { label: "Custom JWT Verifier", value: "custom-jwt-verifier" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value = "default-verifier">

```kotlin title="Usage"
import android.widget.Button
import com.web3auth.core.Web3Auth
import android.os.Bundle

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() { private lateinit var web3Auth: Web3Auth

     private fun enableMFA() {
       // focus-next-line
       val completableFuture = web3Auth.enableMFA()

        completableFuture.whenComplete{_, error ->
            if (error == null) {
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", "Launched successfully")
                // Add your logic
            } else {
                // Add your logic on error
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", error.message ?: "Something went wrong")
            }
        }
    }

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        ...
        // Setup UI and event handlers
        val enableMFAButton = findViewById<Button>(R.id.enableMFAButton)
        enableMFAButton.setOnClickListener { enableMFA() }
        ...
    }
    ...

}

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="custom-jwt-verifier">

```kotlin title="Usage"
import android.widget.Button
import com.web3auth.core.Web3Auth
import android.os.Bundle

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() { private lateinit var web3Auth: Web3Auth

     private fun enableMFA() {
        val loginParams = LoginParams(
            Provider.JWT,
            extraLoginOptions = ExtraLoginOptions(id_token = "<your_jwt_token>")
        )

        // focus-next-line
        val completableFuture = web3Auth.enableMFA(loginParams)

        completableFuture.whenComplete{_, error ->
            if (error == null) {
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", "Launched successfully")
                // Add your logic
            } else {
                // Add your logic on error
                Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", error.message ?: "Something went wrong")
            }
        }
    }

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        ...
        // Setup UI and event handlers
        val enableMFAButton = findViewById<Button>(R.id.enableMFAButton)
        enableMFAButton.setOnClickListener { enableMFA() }
        ...
    }
    ...

}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### `launchWalletServices` method

From v6, developers can use the `launchWalletServices` to launches a WebView which allows them to use the templated wallet UI services. Developers can pass the `ChainConfig` to open Wallet Services with a specific chain selected.

:::note

Access to Wallet Services is gated. You can use this feature in `sapphire_devnet` for free. The minimum [pricing plan](https://web3auth.io/pricing.html) to use this feature in a production environment is the **Scale Plan**.

:::

#### ChainConfig arguments

| Parameter | Description                                                                    |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `chainNamespace` | Custom configuration for your preferred blockchain. As of now only EVM supported. Default value is `ChainNamespace.EIP155`. |
| `decimals?` | Number of decimals for the currency ticker. Default value is 18, and accepts `Int` as value. |
| `blockExplorerUrl?` | Blockchain's explorer URL. (for example, `https://etherscan.io`) |
| `chainId` | The chain ID of the selected blockchain in hex `String`. |
| `displayName?` | Display Name for the chain. |
| `logo?` | Logo for the selected `chainNamespace` and `chainId`. |
| `rpcTarget` | RPC Target URL for the selected `chainNamespace` & `chainId`. |
| `ticker?` | Default currency ticker of the network (for example, `ETH`) |
| `tickerName?` | Name for currency ticker (for example, `Ethereum`) |

#### Usage

```kotlin title="Usage"
// focus-start
val launchWalletCompletableFuture = web3Auth.launchWalletServices(
    loginParams = LoginParams(
        selectedLoginProvider,
        extraLoginOptions = null,
        mfaLevel = MFALevel.NONE,
    ),

    chainConfig = ChainConfig(
        chainId = "0x1",
        rpcTarget = "https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/$key",
        ticker = "ETH",
        chainNamespace = ChainNamespace.EIP155
    )
)
// focus-end

launchWalletCompletableFuture.whenComplete { _, error ->
    if (error == null) {
        Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", "Wallet launched successfully")
    } else {
        Log.d("MainActivity_Web3Auth", error.message ?: "Something went wrong")
    }
}
```
