services/reference/solana/json-rpc-methods/digital-asset-standard/getassetsbyowner.mdx, before:

---
title: "getAssetsByOwner"
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# `getAssetsByOwner`

Returns the list of assets given an owner address.

:::info
Infura does not currently support `params` as a JSON object.
Instead, parameters must be passed as a positional array, following the exact order defined in the method's
specification. This may differ from some other providers, where parameters are typically wrapped in an
object containing key/value pairs.
:::

## Parameters

- `ownerAddress`: (string) _[required]_ - The `base58` encoded public key of the owner of the assets.
- `sortBy`: (object) _[optional]_ - Sorting criteria for the results:
  - `sortBy` - The field to sort by. Possible values: `created`, `updated`, `recent_action`, `id`, `none`.
  - `sortDirection` - The sort direction. Possible values: `asc`, `desc`.
- `limit`: (number) _[optional]_ - The maximum number of assets to retrieve.
- `page`: (number) _[optional]_ - The index of the page to retrieve.
- `before`: (string) _[optional]_ - Retrieve assets before the specified ID.
- `after`: (string) _[optional]_ - Retrieve assets after the specified ID.

## Returns

`result` - An object containing the following fields:

- `total` - The total number of assets matching the query.
- `limit` - The maximum number of assets returned in this response.
- `items` - An array of asset objects. Each asset object contains:
  - `interface` - The interface type of the asset. Return types include: `V1_NFT`, `V1_PRINT`, `LEGACY_NFT`,
      `V2_NFT`, `FungibleAsset`, `FungibleToken`, `Custom`, `Identity`, `Executable`, `ProgrammableNFT`.
  - `id` - The ID of the asset.
  - `content` - An object containing the metadata and content information:
    - `$schema` - The schema URI.
    - `json_uri` - The URI pointing to the asset's JSON metadata.
    - `files` - List of associated files with `uri`, `mime`, and optional `contexts`.
    - `metadata` - An object containing the metadata information:
      - `name` - The name of the asset.
      - `symbol` - The symbol of the asset.
      - `description` - A description of the asset.
      - `attributes` - List of attributes with `trait_type` and `value`.
      - `token_standard` - The token standard of the asset.
  - `ownership` - An object containing the ownership details:
    - `owner` - The owner's public key.
    - `frozen` - Whether the asset is frozen.
    - `delegated` - Whether the asset is delegated.
    - `delegate` - The delegate's public key.
    - `ownership_model` - The ownership model, for example `single` or `token`.
  - `compression` - An object containing the asset compression details:
    - `eligible` - Whether the asset is eligible for compression.
    - `compressed` - Whether the asset is compressed.
    - `data_hash` - The data hash of the asset.
    - `creator_hash` - The creator hash of the asset.
    - `asset_hash` - The asset hash.
    - `tree` - The Merkle tree ID.
    - `seq` - The sequence number.
    - `leaf_id` - The leaf ID.
  - `royalty` - An object containing the royalty details:
    - `royalty_model` - The royalty model (`creators`, `fanout`, or `single`).
    - `target` - The target address for royalties.
    - `percent` - The royalty percentage.
    - `basis_points` - The royalty in basis points.
    - `primary_sale_happened` - Whether the primary sale has occurred.
    - `locked` - Whether the royalty is locked.
  - `creators` - List of creators:
    - `address` - The creator's public key.
    - `share` - The creator's share percentage.
    - `verified` - Whether the creator is verified.
  - `grouping` - Grouping details:
    - `group_key` - The group key (for example, `collection`).
    - `group_value` - The group value.
  - `uses` - An object containing the usage details:
    - `use_method` - The usage method (`burn`, `multiple`, or `single`).
    - `remaining` - The remaining uses.
    - `total` - The total uses.
  - `mutable` - Whether the asset is mutable.
  - `burnt` - Whether the asset is burnt.

## Example

Replace `<YOUR-API-KEY>` with your API key.

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="curl">

  ```bash
  curl https://solana-mainnet.infura.io/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "getAssetsByOwner", "params": ["4cbnLyRoowAXtxLN6sEYrdYTFUkzodRyNFG7g4FKWBBA", {"sortBy": "created", "sortDirection": "desc"}, 50, 1, null, null]}'
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">

  ```bash
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
      "total": 46,
      "limit": 50,
      "page": 1,
      "items": [
        {
          "interface": "V1_NFT",
          "id": "6rZXazDDvM8RU1UDwunkqdhw1nXVFWRuk2Dh1ThJYLTH",
          "content": {
            "$schema": "https://schema.metaplex.com/nft1.0.json",
            "json_uri": "https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/QmctZUaANofFr1BLgWQchwjcUMYEX2ZSx2LpDSHSRtQj5m",
            "files": [],
            "metadata": {
              "name": "Key",
              "symbol": "",
              "token_standard": "NonFungible"
            },
            "links": {}
          },
          "authorities": [
            {
              "address": "9NFLyt33NWcidPYbPyVW7yWpAM1RKepNVMYAhCSpSM3w",
              "scopes": [
                "full"
              ]
            }
          ],
          "compression": {
            "eligible": false,
            "compressed": true,
            "data_hash": "5ZUYsZn64hubvRVCpnVxX9iBmEbEt1N8v5kbtoSS3L2K",
            "creator_hash": "8i3JU72aZtimFTFFQtZCGkzrnLbibBDYVycCn3yrKc5e",
            "asset_hash": "37fJAak3P8dFCJX4HijBtqEG6PjoXr74g86xaW4bPfjB",
            "tree": "EpGN5mjMwAdWAQHZSHrjGcB7zewEw2KrRezZchSq9W6B",
            "seq": 238234,
            "leaf_id": 225357
          },
          "grouping": [
            {
              "group_key": "collection",
              "group_value": "BZNai1KJr17myQUUSfcU6FGHxtp4UwMPawkszXmihyiJ"
            }
          ],
          "royalty": {
            "royalty_model": "creators",
            "target": null,
            "percent": 0,
            "basis_points": 0,
            "primary_sale_happened": false,
            "locked": false
          },
          "creators": [
            {
              "address": "HeUwVyLufyPMiUnRe6Fo9iUvSBXtFYszAkG6q2WLCikD",
              "share": 100,
              "verified": false
            }
          ],
          "ownership": {
            "frozen": false,
            "delegated": false,
            "delegate": null,
            "ownership_model": "single",
            "owner": "4cbnLyRoowAXtxLN6sEYrdYTFUkzodRyNFG7g4FKWBBA"
          },
          "supply": {
            "print_max_supply": 0,
            "print_current_supply": 0,
            "edition_nonce": null
          },
          "mutable": true,
          "burnt": false
        },
        ...
      ]
    },
    "id": 1
  }
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Update pricing info.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

services/reference/solana/json-rpc-methods/digital-asset-standard/getassetsbyowner.mdx, after:

---
title: "getAssetsByOwner"
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CreditCost from '@site/src/components/CreditCost/CreditCostPrice.js';

# `getAssetsByOwner`

Returns the list of assets given an owner address. <CreditCost network="solana" method="getAssetsByOwner" />

## Parameters

- `ownerAddress`: (string) _[required]_ - The `base58` encoded public key of the owner of the assets.
- `sortBy`: (object) _[optional]_ - Sorting criteria for the results:
  - `sortBy` - The field to sort by. Possible values: `created`, `updated`, `recent_action`, `id`, `none`.
  - `sortDirection` - The sort direction. Possible values: `asc`, `desc`.
- `limit`: (number) _[optional]_ - The maximum number of assets to retrieve.
- `page`: (number) _[optional]_ - The index of the page to retrieve.
- `before`: (string) _[optional]_ - Retrieve assets before the specified ID.
- `after`: (string) _[optional]_ - Retrieve assets after the specified ID.

## Returns

`result` - An object containing the following fields:

- `total` - The total number of assets matching the query.
- `limit` - The maximum number of assets returned in this response.
- `items` - An array of asset objects. Each asset object contains:
  - `interface` - The interface type of the asset. Return types include: `V1_NFT`, `V1_PRINT`, `LEGACY_NFT`,
      `V2_NFT`, `FungibleAsset`, `FungibleToken`, `Custom`, `Identity`, `Executable`, `ProgrammableNFT`.
  - `id` - The ID of the asset.
  - `content` - An object containing the metadata and content information:
    - `$schema` - The schema URI.
    - `json_uri` - The URI pointing to the asset's JSON metadata.
    - `files` - List of associated files with `uri`, `mime`, and optional `contexts`.
    - `metadata` - An object containing the metadata information:
      - `name` - The name of the asset.
      - `symbol` - The symbol of the asset.
      - `description` - A description of the asset.
      - `attributes` - List of attributes with `trait_type` and `value`.
      - `token_standard` - The token standard of the asset.
  - `ownership` - An object containing the ownership details:
    - `owner` - The owner's public key.
    - `frozen` - Whether the asset is frozen.
    - `delegated` - Whether the asset is delegated.
    - `delegate` - The delegate's public key.
    - `ownership_model` - The ownership model, for example `single` or `token`.
  - `compression` - An object containing the asset compression details:
    - `eligible` - Whether the asset is eligible for compression.
    - `compressed` - Whether the asset is compressed.
    - `data_hash` - The data hash of the asset.
    - `creator_hash` - The creator hash of the asset.
    - `asset_hash` - The asset hash.
    - `tree` - The Merkle tree ID.
    - `seq` - The sequence number.
    - `leaf_id` - The leaf ID.
  - `royalty` - An object containing the royalty details:
    - `royalty_model` - The royalty model (`creators`, `fanout`, or `single`).
    - `target` - The target address for royalties.
    - `percent` - The royalty percentage.
    - `basis_points` - The royalty in basis points.
    - `primary_sale_happened` - Whether the primary sale has occurred.
    - `locked` - Whether the royalty is locked.
  - `creators` - List of creators:
    - `address` - The creator's public key.
    - `share` - The creator's share percentage.
    - `verified` - Whether the creator is verified.
  - `grouping` - Grouping details:
    - `group_key` - The group key (for example, `collection`).
    - `group_value` - The group value.
  - `uses` - An object containing the usage details:
    - `use_method` - The usage method (`burn`, `multiple`, or `single`).
    - `remaining` - The remaining uses.
    - `total` - The total uses.
  - `mutable` - Whether the asset is mutable.
  - `burnt` - Whether the asset is burnt.

## Example

Replace `<YOUR-API-KEY>` with your API key.

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="curl">

  ```bash
  curl https://solana-mainnet.infura.io/v3/<YOUR-API-KEY> \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "getAssetsByOwner", "params": ["4cbnLyRoowAXtxLN6sEYrdYTFUkzodRyNFG7g4FKWBBA", {"sortBy": "created", "sortDirection": "desc"}, 50, 1, null, null]}'
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">

  ```bash
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
      "total": 46,
      "limit": 50,
      "page": 1,
      "items": [
        {
          "interface": "V1_NFT",
          "id": "6rZXazDDvM8RU1UDwunkqdhw1nXVFWRuk2Dh1ThJYLTH",
          "content": {
            "$schema": "https://schema.metaplex.com/nft1.0.json",
            "json_uri": "https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/QmctZUaANofFr1BLgWQchwjcUMYEX2ZSx2LpDSHSRtQj5m",
            "files": [],
            "metadata": {
              "name": "Key",
              "symbol": "",
              "token_standard": "NonFungible"
            },
            "links": {}
          },
          "authorities": [
            {
              "address": "9NFLyt33NWcidPYbPyVW7yWpAM1RKepNVMYAhCSpSM3w",
              "scopes": [
                "full"
              ]
            }
          ],
          "compression": {
            "eligible": false,
            "compressed": true,
            "data_hash": "5ZUYsZn64hubvRVCpnVxX9iBmEbEt1N8v5kbtoSS3L2K",
            "creator_hash": "8i3JU72aZtimFTFFQtZCGkzrnLbibBDYVycCn3yrKc5e",
            "asset_hash": "37fJAak3P8dFCJX4HijBtqEG6PjoXr74g86xaW4bPfjB",
            "tree": "EpGN5mjMwAdWAQHZSHrjGcB7zewEw2KrRezZchSq9W6B",
            "seq": 238234,
            "leaf_id": 225357
          },
          "grouping": [
            {
              "group_key": "collection",
              "group_value": "BZNai1KJr17myQUUSfcU6FGHxtp4UwMPawkszXmihyiJ"
            }
          ],
          "royalty": {
            "royalty_model": "creators",
            "target": null,
            "percent": 0,
            "basis_points": 0,
            "primary_sale_happened": false,
            "locked": false
          },
          "creators": [
            {
              "address": "HeUwVyLufyPMiUnRe6Fo9iUvSBXtFYszAkG6q2WLCikD",
              "share": 100,
              "verified": false
            }
          ],
          "ownership": {
            "frozen": false,
            "delegated": false,
            "delegate": null,
            "ownership_model": "single",
            "owner": "4cbnLyRoowAXtxLN6sEYrdYTFUkzodRyNFG7g4FKWBBA"
          },
          "supply": {
            "print_max_supply": 0,
            "print_current_supply": 0,
            "edition_nonce": null
          },
          "mutable": true,
          "burnt": false
        },
        ...
      ]
    },
    "id": 1
  }
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
