gator_versioned_docs/version-0.1.0/guides/advanced-permissions/execute-on-metamask-users-behalf.md, before:

---
description: Use Advanced Permissions (ERC-7115) to perform executions on a MetaMask user's behalf.
sidebar_label: Execute on a MetaMask user's behalf
keywords: [execution, smart account, create, redeem, delegation, erc 7715, 7715, session account, advanced permissions]
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"; 
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Perform executions on a MetaMask user's behalf

[Advanced Permissions (ERC-7115)](../../concepts/advanced-permissions.md) are fine-grained permissions that your dapp can request from a MetaMask user to execute transactions on their 
behalf. For example, a user can grant your dapp permission to spend 10 USDC per day to buy ETH over the course 
of a month. Once the permission is granted, your dapp can use the allocated 10 USDC each day to 
purchase ETH directly from the MetaMask user's account.

In this guide, you'll request an ERC-20 periodic transfer permission from a MetaMask user to transfer 1 USDC every day on their behalf.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and set up the Smart Accounts Kit.](../../get-started/install.md)
- [Install MetaMask Flask 13.5.0 or later.](/snaps/get-started/install-flask)

### 1. Set up a Wallet Client

Set up a [Viem Wallet Client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/wallet) using Viem's `createWalletClient` function. This client will
help you interact with MetaMask Flask. 

Then, extend the Wallet Client functionality using `erc7715ProviderActions`. These actions enable you to request Advanced Permissions from the user.

```typescript
import { createWalletClient, custom } from "viem";
import { erc7715ProviderActions } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit/actions";

const walletClient = createWalletClient({
  transport: custom(window.ethereum),
}).extend(erc7715ProviderActions());
```

### 2. Set up a Public Client

Set up a [Viem Public Client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/public) using Viem's `createPublicClient` function. 
This client will help you query the account state and interact with the blockchain network.

```typescript
import { createPublicClient, http } from "viem";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";
 
const publicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain,
  transport: http(),
});
```

### 3. Set up a session account

Set up a session account which can either be a smart account or an externally owned account (EOA)
to request Advanced Permissions. The requested permissions are granted to the session account, which
is responsible for executing transactions on behalf of the user.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Smart account">

```typescript
import { privateKeyToAccount } from "viem/accounts";
import { 
  toMetaMaskSmartAccount, 
  Implementation 
} from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit";

const privateKey = "0x...";
const account = privateKeyToAccount(privateKey);

const sessionAccount = await toMetaMaskSmartAccount({
  client: publicClient,
  implementation: Implementation.Hybrid,
  deployParams: [account.address, [], [], []],
  deploySalt: "0x",
  signer: { account },
});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="EOA">

```typescript
import { privateKeyToAccount } from "viem/accounts";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";
import { createWalletClient, http } from "viem";

const sessionAccount = privateKeyToAccount("0x...");
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 4. Check the EOA account code

Currently, Advanced Permissions do not support automatically upgrading a MetaMask user's account to a [MetaMask smart account](../../concepts/smart-accounts.md). Therefore, you must 
ensure that the user is upgraded to a smart account before requesting Advanced Permissions.

If the user has not yet been upgraded, you can handle the upgrade [programmatically](/wallet/how-to/send-transactions/send-batch-transactions/#about-atomic-batch-transactions) or ask the 
user to [switch to a smart account manually](https://support.metamask.io/configure/accounts/switch-to-or-revert-from-a-smart-account/#how-to-switch-to-a-metamask-smart-account).

:::info Why is a Smart Account upgrade is required?
MetaMask's Advanced Permissions (ERC-7115) implementation requires the user to be upgraded to a MetaMask 
Smart Account because, under the hood, you're requesting a signature for an [ERC-7710 delegation](../../concepts/delegation/index.md).
ERC-7710 delegation is one of the core features supported only by MetaMask Smart Accounts.
:::

```typescript
import { getSmartAccountsEnvironment } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";

const addresses = await walletClient.requestAddresses();
const address = addresses[0];

// Get the EOA account code
const code = await publicClient.getCode({
  address,
});

if (code) {
  // The address to which EOA has delegated. According to EIP-7702, 0xef0100 || address
  // represents the delegation. 
  // 
  // You need to remove the first 8 characters (0xef0100) to get the delegator address.
  const delegatorAddress = `0x${code.substring(8)}`;

  const statelessDelegatorAddress = getSmartAccountsEnvironment(chain.id)
  .implementations
  .EIP7702StatelessDeleGatorImpl;

  // If account is not upgraded to MetaMask smart account, you can
  // either upgrade programmatically or ask the user to switch to a smart account manually.
  const isAccountUpgraded = delegatorAddress.toLowerCase() === statelessDelegatorAddress.toLowerCase();
}
```

### 5. Request Advanced Permissions

Request Advanced Permissions from the user. In this example, you'll request an
[ERC-20 periodic permission](use-permissions/erc20-token.md#erc-20-periodic-permission) using the Wallet Client's 
[`requestExecutionPermissions`](../../reference/advanced-permissions/wallet-client.md#requestexecutionpermissions) action.

```typescript
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";
import { parseUnits } from "viem";

// Since current time is in seconds, we need to convert milliseconds to seconds.
const currentTime = Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000);
// 1 week from now.
const expiry = currentTime + 604800;

// USDC address on Ethereum Sepolia.
const tokenAddress = "0x1c7D4B196Cb0C7B01d743Fbc6116a902379C7238";

const grantedPermissions = await walletClient.requestExecutionPermissions([{
  chainId: chain.id,
  expiry,
  signer: {
    type: "account",
    data: {
      // The requested permissions will granted to the
      // session account.
      address: sessionAccount.address,
    },
  },
  permission: {
    type: "erc20-token-periodic",
    data: {
      tokenAddress,
      // 1 USDC in WEI format. Since USDC has 6 decimals, 10 * 10^6
      periodAmount: parseUnits("10", 6),
      // 1 day in seconds
      periodDuration: 86400,
      justification?: "Permission to transfer 1 USDC every day",
    },
  },
  isAdjustmentAllowed: true,
}]);
```

### 6. Set up a Viem client

Set up a Viem client depending on your session account type.

For a smart account, set up a [Viem Bundler Client](https://viem.sh/account-abstraction/clients/bundler) 
using Viem's `createBundlerClient` function. This lets you use the bundler service 
to estimate gas for user operations and submit transactions to the network.

For an EOA, set up a [Viem Wallet Client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/wallet) 
using Viem's `createWalletClient` function. This lets you send transactions directly to the network.

The toolkit provides public actions for both of the clients which can be used to redeem Advanced Permissions, and execute transactions on a user's behalf. 

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Smart account">

```typescript
import { createBundlerClient } from "viem/account-abstraction";
import { erc7710BundlerActions } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit/actions";

const bundlerClient = createBundlerClient({
  client: publicClient,
  transport: http("https://your-bundler-rpc.com"),
  // Allows you to use the same Bundler Client as paymaster.
  paymaster: true
}).extend(erc7710BundlerActions());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="EOA">

```typescript
import { createWalletClient, http } from "viem";
import { erc7710WalletActions } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit/actions";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";

const sessionAccountWalletClient = createWalletClient({
  account: sessionAccount,
  chain,
  transport: http(),
}).extend(erc7710WalletActions());
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### 7. Redeem Advanced Permissions

The session account can now redeem the permissions. The redeem transaction is sent to the `DelegationManager` contract, which validates the delegation and executes actions on the user's behalf.

To redeem the permissions, use the client action based on your session account type.
A smart account uses the Bundler Client's [`sendUserOperationWithDelegation`](../../reference/advanced-permissions/bundler-client.md#senduseroperationwithdelegation) action,
and an EOA uses the Wallet Client's [`sendTransactionWithDelegation`](../../reference/advanced-permissions/wallet-client.md#sendtransactionwithdelegation) action:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Smart account">

```typescript
import { calldata } from "./config.ts";

// These properties must be extracted from the permission response.
const permissionsContext = grantedPermissions[0].context;
const delegationManager = grantedPermissions[0].signerMeta.delegationManager;

// USDC address on Ethereum Sepolia.
const tokenAddress = "0x1c7D4B196Cb0C7B01d743Fbc6116a902379C7238";

// Calls without permissionsContext and delegationManager will be executed 
// as a normal user operation.
const userOperationHash = await bundlerClient.sendUserOperationWithDelegation({
  publicClient,
  account: sessionAccount,
  calls: [
    {
      to: tokenAddress,
      data: calldata,
      permissionsContext,
      delegationManager,
    },
  ],
  // Appropriate values must be used for fee-per-gas. 
  maxFeePerGas: 1n,
  maxPriorityFeePerGas: 1n,
});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="EOA">

```typescript
import { calldata } from "./config.ts";

// These properties must be extracted from the permission response.
const permissionsContext = grantedPermissions[0].context;
const delegationManager = grantedPermissions[0].signerMeta.delegationManager;

// USDC address on Ethereum Sepolia.
const tokenAddress = "0x1c7D4B196Cb0C7B01d743Fbc6116a902379C7238";

const transactionHash = await sessionAccountWalletClient.sendTransactionWithDelegation({
  to: tokenAddress,
  data: calldata,
  permissionsContext,
  delegationManager,
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="config.ts">

```typescript
import { encodeFunctionData, erc20Abi, parseUnits } from "viem";

export const calldata = encodeFunctionData({
  abi: erc20Abi,
  args: [ sessionAccount.address, parseUnits("1", 6) ],
  functionName: 'transfer',
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next steps

See how to configure different [ERC-20 token permissions](use-permissions/erc20-token.md) and
[native token permissions](use-permissions/native-token.md).

Commit message:

Update API reference
* lock files for v0.1

* update delegation API reference

gator_versioned_docs/version-0.1.0/guides/advanced-permissions/execute-on-metamask-users-behalf.md, after:

---
description: Use Advanced Permissions (ERC-7115) to perform executions on a MetaMask user's behalf.
sidebar_label: Execute on a MetaMask user's behalf
keywords: [execution, smart account, create, redeem, delegation, erc 7715, 7715, session account, advanced permissions]
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"; 
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Perform executions on a MetaMask user's behalf

[Advanced Permissions (ERC-7115)](../../concepts/advanced-permissions.md) are fine-grained permissions that your dapp can request from a MetaMask user to execute transactions on their 
behalf. For example, a user can grant your dapp permission to spend 10 USDC per day to buy ETH over the course 
of a month. Once the permission is granted, your dapp can use the allocated 10 USDC each day to 
purchase ETH directly from the MetaMask user's account.

In this guide, you'll request an ERC-20 periodic transfer permission from a MetaMask user to transfer 1 USDC every day on their behalf.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and set up the Smart Accounts Kit.](../../get-started/install.md)
- [Install MetaMask Flask 13.5.0 or later.](/snaps/get-started/install-flask)

### 1. Set up a Wallet Client

Set up a [Viem Wallet Client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/wallet) using Viem's `createWalletClient` function. This client will
help you interact with MetaMask Flask. 

Then, extend the Wallet Client functionality using `erc7715ProviderActions`. These actions enable you to request Advanced Permissions from the user.

```typescript
import { createWalletClient, custom } from "viem";
import { erc7715ProviderActions } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit/actions";

const walletClient = createWalletClient({
  transport: custom(window.ethereum),
}).extend(erc7715ProviderActions());
```

### 2. Set up a Public Client

Set up a [Viem Public Client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/public) using Viem's `createPublicClient` function. 
This client will help you query the account state and interact with the blockchain network.

```typescript
import { createPublicClient, http } from "viem";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";
 
const publicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain,
  transport: http(),
});
```

### 3. Set up a session account

Set up a session account which can either be a smart account or an externally owned account (EOA)
to request Advanced Permissions. The requested permissions are granted to the session account, which
is responsible for executing transactions on behalf of the user.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Smart account">

```typescript
import { privateKeyToAccount } from "viem/accounts";
import { 
  toMetaMaskSmartAccount, 
  Implementation 
} from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit";

const privateKey = "0x...";
const account = privateKeyToAccount(privateKey);

const sessionAccount = await toMetaMaskSmartAccount({
  client: publicClient,
  implementation: Implementation.Hybrid,
  deployParams: [account.address, [], [], []],
  deploySalt: "0x",
  signer: { account },
});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="EOA">

```typescript
import { privateKeyToAccount } from "viem/accounts";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";
import { createWalletClient, http } from "viem";

const sessionAccount = privateKeyToAccount("0x...");
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 4. Check the EOA account code

Advanced Permissions support the automatic upgrading of a MetaMask user's account to a [MetaMask smart account](../../concepts/smart-accounts.md),
when using MetaMask Flask version 13.9.0 or later. For earlier versions, you must ensure that the 
user is upgraded to a smart account before requesting Advanced Permissions.

If the user has not yet been upgraded, you can handle the upgrade [programmatically](/wallet/how-to/send-transactions/send-batch-transactions/#about-atomic-batch-transactions) or ask the 
user to [switch to a smart account manually](https://support.metamask.io/configure/accounts/switch-to-or-revert-from-a-smart-account/#how-to-switch-to-a-metamask-smart-account).

:::info Why is a Smart Account upgrade is required?
MetaMask's Advanced Permissions (ERC-7115) implementation requires the user to be upgraded to a MetaMask 
Smart Account because, under the hood, you're requesting a signature for an [ERC-7710 delegation](../../concepts/delegation/index.md).
ERC-7710 delegation is one of the core features supported only by MetaMask Smart Accounts.
:::

```typescript
import { getSmartAccountsEnvironment } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";

const addresses = await walletClient.requestAddresses();
const address = addresses[0];

// Get the EOA account code
const code = await publicClient.getCode({
  address,
});

if (code) {
  // The address to which EOA has delegated. According to EIP-7702, 0xef0100 || address
  // represents the delegation. 
  // 
  // You need to remove the first 8 characters (0xef0100) to get the delegator address.
  const delegatorAddress = `0x${code.substring(8)}`;

  const statelessDelegatorAddress = getSmartAccountsEnvironment(chain.id)
  .implementations
  .EIP7702StatelessDeleGatorImpl;

  // If account is not upgraded to MetaMask smart account, you can
  // either upgrade programmatically or ask the user to switch to a smart account manually.
  const isAccountUpgraded = delegatorAddress.toLowerCase() === statelessDelegatorAddress.toLowerCase();
}
```

### 5. Request Advanced Permissions

Request Advanced Permissions from the user using the Wallet Client's `requestExecutionPermissions` action.
In this example, you'll request an
[ERC-20 periodic permission](use-permissions/erc20-token.md#erc-20-periodic-permission).

See the [`requestExecutionPermissions`](../../reference/advanced-permissions/wallet-client.md#requestexecutionpermissions) API reference for more information.

```typescript
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";
import { parseUnits } from "viem";

// Since current time is in seconds, we need to convert milliseconds to seconds.
const currentTime = Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000);
// 1 week from now.
const expiry = currentTime + 604800;

// USDC address on Ethereum Sepolia.
const tokenAddress = "0x1c7D4B196Cb0C7B01d743Fbc6116a902379C7238";

const grantedPermissions = await walletClient.requestExecutionPermissions([{
  chainId: chain.id,
  expiry,
  signer: {
    type: "account",
    data: {
      // The requested permissions will granted to the
      // session account.
      address: sessionAccount.address,
    },
  },
  permission: {
    type: "erc20-token-periodic",
    data: {
      tokenAddress,
      // 1 USDC in WEI format. Since USDC has 6 decimals, 10 * 10^6
      periodAmount: parseUnits("10", 6),
      // 1 day in seconds
      periodDuration: 86400,
      justification?: "Permission to transfer 1 USDC every day",
    },
  },
  isAdjustmentAllowed: true,
}]);
```

### 6. Set up a Viem client

Set up a Viem client depending on your session account type.

For a smart account, set up a [Viem Bundler Client](https://viem.sh/account-abstraction/clients/bundler) 
using Viem's `createBundlerClient` function. This lets you use the bundler service 
to estimate gas for user operations and submit transactions to the network.

For an EOA, set up a [Viem Wallet Client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/wallet) 
using Viem's `createWalletClient` function. This lets you send transactions directly to the network.

The toolkit provides public actions for both of the clients which can be used to redeem Advanced Permissions, and execute transactions on a user's behalf. 

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Smart account">

```typescript
import { createBundlerClient } from "viem/account-abstraction";
import { erc7710BundlerActions } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit/actions";

const bundlerClient = createBundlerClient({
  client: publicClient,
  transport: http("https://your-bundler-rpc.com"),
  // Allows you to use the same Bundler Client as paymaster.
  paymaster: true
}).extend(erc7710BundlerActions());
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="EOA">

```typescript
import { createWalletClient, http } from "viem";
import { erc7710WalletActions } from "@metamask/smart-accounts-kit/actions";
import { sepolia as chain } from "viem/chains";

const sessionAccountWalletClient = createWalletClient({
  account: sessionAccount,
  chain,
  transport: http(),
}).extend(erc7710WalletActions());
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### 7. Redeem Advanced Permissions

The session account can now redeem the permissions. The redeem transaction is sent to the `DelegationManager` contract, which validates the delegation and executes actions on the user's behalf.

To redeem the permissions, use the client action based on your session account type.
A smart account uses the Bundler Client's `sendUserOperationWithDelegation` action,
and an EOA uses the Wallet Client's `sendTransactionWithDelegation` action.

See the [`sendUserOperationWithDelegation`](../../reference/advanced-permissions/bundler-client.md#senduseroperationwithdelegation) and [`sendTransactionWithDelegation`](../../reference/advanced-permissions/wallet-client.md#sendtransactionwithdelegation) API reference for more information.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Smart account">

```typescript
import { calldata } from "./config.ts";

// These properties must be extracted from the permission response.
const permissionsContext = grantedPermissions[0].context;
const delegationManager = grantedPermissions[0].signerMeta.delegationManager;

// USDC address on Ethereum Sepolia.
const tokenAddress = "0x1c7D4B196Cb0C7B01d743Fbc6116a902379C7238";

// Calls without permissionsContext and delegationManager will be executed 
// as a normal user operation.
const userOperationHash = await bundlerClient.sendUserOperationWithDelegation({
  publicClient,
  account: sessionAccount,
  calls: [
    {
      to: tokenAddress,
      data: calldata,
      permissionsContext,
      delegationManager,
    },
  ],
  // Appropriate values must be used for fee-per-gas. 
  maxFeePerGas: 1n,
  maxPriorityFeePerGas: 1n,
});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="EOA">

```typescript
import { calldata } from "./config.ts";

// These properties must be extracted from the permission response.
const permissionsContext = grantedPermissions[0].context;
const delegationManager = grantedPermissions[0].signerMeta.delegationManager;

// USDC address on Ethereum Sepolia.
const tokenAddress = "0x1c7D4B196Cb0C7B01d743Fbc6116a902379C7238";

const transactionHash = await sessionAccountWalletClient.sendTransactionWithDelegation({
  to: tokenAddress,
  data: calldata,
  permissionsContext,
  delegationManager,
});
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="config.ts">

```typescript
import { encodeFunctionData, erc20Abi, parseUnits } from "viem";

export const calldata = encodeFunctionData({
  abi: erc20Abi,
  args: [ sessionAccount.address, parseUnits("1", 6) ],
  functionName: 'transfer',
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next steps

See how to configure different [ERC-20 token permissions](use-permissions/erc20-token.md) and
[native token permissions](use-permissions/native-token.md).
