delegation-toolkit/guides/delegation/check-delegation-state.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to check the delegation state.
sidebar_label: Check the delegation state
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Check the delegation state

When using [spending limit delegation scopes](use-delegation-scopes/spending-limit.md) or relevant [caveat enforcers](../../reference/caveats.md),
you might need to check the remaining transferrable amount in a delegation.
For example, if a delegation allows a user to spend 10 USDC per week and they have already spent 10 - n USDC in the current period,
you can determine how much of the allowance is still available for transfer.

Use the `CaveatEnforcerClient` to check the available balances for specific scopes or caveats.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and set up the Delegation Toolkit.](../../get-started/install.md)
- [Create a delegator account.](execute-on-smart-accounts-behalf.md#3-create-a-delegator-account)
- [Create a delegate account.](execute-on-smart-accounts-behalf.mdexecute-on-smart-accounts-behalf.md#4-create-a-delegate-account)
- [Create a delegation with an ERC-20 periodic scope.](use-delegation-scopes/spending-limit.md#erc-20-periodic-scope)

## Create a `CaveatEnforcerClient`

To check the delegation state, create a `CaveatEnforcerClient`.
This client allows you to interact with the caveat enforcers of the delegation, and read the required state.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="example.ts">

```typescript
import { environment, publicClient as client } from './config.ts'
import { createCaveatEnforcerClient } from '@metamask/delegation-toolkit'

const caveatEnforcerClient = createCaveatEnforcerClient({
  environment,
  client,
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="config.ts">

```typescript
import { sepolia as chain } from 'viem/chains'
import { createPublicClient, http } from 'viem'
import { getDeleGatorEnvironment } from '@metamask/delegation-toolkit'

export const environment = getDeleGatorEnvironment(chain.id)

export const publicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain,
  transport: http(),
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Read the caveat enforcer state

This example uses the `getErc20PeriodTransferEnforcerAvailableAmount` method to read the state and retrieve the remaining amount for the current transfer period. 

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="example.ts">

```typescript
import { delegation } './config.ts'

// Returns the available amount for current period. 
const { availableAmount } = await caveatEnforcerClient.getErc20PeriodTransferEnforcerAvailableAmount({
  delegation,
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="config.ts">

```typescript
import { createDelegation } from '@metamask/delegation-toolkit'

export const delegation = createDelegation({
  scope: {
    type: 'erc20PeriodTransfer',
    tokenAddress: '0xb4aE654Aca577781Ca1c5DE8FbE60c2F423f37da',
    periodAmount: 1000000000000000000n,
    periodDuration: 86400,
    startDate: 1743763600,
  },
  to: delegateAccount,
  from: delegatorAccount,
  environment: delegatorAccount.environment,
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Update reference section
* restructure reference docs

* add support for caveat enforcer client reference

* add delegation api index page, fix links, adjust toc style

* revert toc code font size

---------

Co-authored-by: AyushBherwani1998 <“ayush.bherwani1998@gmail.com”>
Co-authored-by: Alexandra Tran <alexandratran@protonmail.com>

delegation-toolkit/guides/delegation/check-delegation-state.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to check the delegation state.
sidebar_label: Check the delegation state
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Check the delegation state

When using [spending limit delegation scopes](use-delegation-scopes/spending-limit.md) or relevant [caveat enforcers](../../reference/delegation/caveats.md),
you might need to check the remaining transferrable amount in a delegation.
For example, if a delegation allows a user to spend 10 USDC per week and they have already spent 10 - n USDC in the current period,
you can determine how much of the allowance is still available for transfer.

Use the `CaveatEnforcerClient` to check the available balances for specific scopes or caveats.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and set up the Delegation Toolkit.](../../get-started/install.md)
- [Create a delegator account.](execute-on-smart-accounts-behalf.md#3-create-a-delegator-account)
- [Create a delegate account.](execute-on-smart-accounts-behalf.md#4-create-a-delegate-account)
- [Create a delegation with an ERC-20 periodic scope.](use-delegation-scopes/spending-limit.md#erc-20-periodic-scope)

## Create a `CaveatEnforcerClient`

To check the delegation state, create a [`CaveatEnforcerClient`](../../reference/delegation/caveat-enforcer-client.md).
This client allows you to interact with the caveat enforcers of the delegation, and read the required state.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="example.ts">

```typescript
import { environment, publicClient as client } from './config.ts'
import { createCaveatEnforcerClient } from '@metamask/delegation-toolkit'

const caveatEnforcerClient = createCaveatEnforcerClient({
  environment,
  client,
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="config.ts">

```typescript
import { sepolia as chain } from 'viem/chains'
import { createPublicClient, http } from 'viem'
import { getDeleGatorEnvironment } from '@metamask/delegation-toolkit'

export const environment = getDeleGatorEnvironment(chain.id)

export const publicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain,
  transport: http(),
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Read the caveat enforcer state

This example uses the [`getErc20PeriodTransferEnforcerAvailableAmount`](../../reference/delegation/caveat-enforcer-client.md#geterc20periodtransferenforceravailableamount) method to read the state and retrieve the remaining amount for the current transfer period.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="example.ts">

```typescript
import { delegation } './config.ts'

// Returns the available amount for current period. 
const { availableAmount } = await caveatEnforcerClient.getErc20PeriodTransferEnforcerAvailableAmount({
  delegation,
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="config.ts">

```typescript
import { createDelegation } from '@metamask/delegation-toolkit'

export const delegation = createDelegation({
  scope: {
    type: 'erc20PeriodTransfer',
    tokenAddress: '0xb4aE654Aca577781Ca1c5DE8FbE60c2F423f37da',
    periodAmount: 1000000000000000000n,
    periodDuration: 86400,
    startDate: 1743763600,
  },
  to: delegateAccount,
  from: delegatorAccount,
  environment: delegatorAccount.environment,
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Next steps

See the [Caveat Enforcer Client reference](../../reference/delegation/caveat-enforcer-client.md) for the full list of available methods.
