embedded-wallets/sdk/js/migration-guides/modal/v8-to-v10/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrating to the Web3Auth Web SDK v10 from v8
description: Learn what has changed from Web3Auth v8 to the v10 Web SDK with comprehensive migration steps and cleaner architecture.
sidebar_label: v8 to v10
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

# Web3Auth Web SDK v8 to v10 Migration Guide

This guide will help you upgrade your Web3Auth SDK integration from v8 directly to the **unified Web3Auth Web SDK v10**, focusing on core package and initialization changes.

## Why Migrate to v10?

Web3Auth v10 consolidates functionality into a single powerful SDK that centralizes configuration in the Dashboard and eliminates frontend adapter complexity.

Key improvements from v8 to v10:

- **Unified SDK Package:** Single `@web3auth/modal` package replaces multiple adapter packages
- **Dashboard-Centric Configuration:** Chain configurations managed via Web3Auth Developer Dashboard
- **Simplified Integration:** No more manual `OpenLoginAdapter` registration
- **Enhanced Developer Experience:** Cleaner API with better TypeScript support

## Installation

Update to the unified v10 SDK package:

```bash npm2yarn
npm uninstall @web3auth/modal @web3auth/openlogin-adapter @web3auth/wallet-services-plugin
npm install @web3auth/modal
```

For custom blockchain configurations:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @web3auth/ethereum-provider
```

## Breaking Changes from v8 to v10

### 1. Unified SDK Package Structure

**v8 used separate packages:**

```typescript
// remove-start
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
import { OpenloginAdapter } from '@web3auth/openlogin-adapter'
import { WalletServicesPlugin } from '@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin'
// remove-end
```

**v10 uses a single package:**

```typescript
// add-start
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
// Most functionality is now built-in - no separate adapters needed for basic use cases
// add-end
```

### 2. OpenLoginAdapter → AuthAdapter → Built-in (v8→v9→v10)

In v8, authentication used `OpenloginAdapter`. V9 renamed it to `AuthAdapter`. V10 eliminates the need for separate adapters in most cases.

```typescript
// remove-start
import { OpenloginAdapter } from '@web3auth/openlogin-adapter'

const openloginAdapter = new OpenloginAdapter({
  loginSettings: {
    mfaLevel: 'optional',
  },
  adapterSettings: {
    whiteLabel: {
      name: 'Your App',
      logoLight: 'https://example.com/logo-light.png',
      logoDark: 'https://example.com/logo-dark.png',
    },
  },
})

web3auth.configureAdapter(openloginAdapter)
// remove-end

// add-start
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, MFA_LEVELS } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // MFA and branding now configured here or via dashboard
  mfaLevel: MFA_LEVELS.OPTIONAL,
})
// add-end
```

### 3. Chain Configuration Centralization

**v8 required manual chain and provider configuration:**

```typescript
// remove-start
import { EthereumPrivateKeyProvider } from '@web3auth/ethereum-provider'
import { getEvmChainConfig } from '@web3auth/base'

const chainConfig = getEvmChainConfig(1, 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID')

const privateKeyProvider = new EthereumPrivateKeyProvider({
  config: { chainConfig },
})

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  privateKeyProvider,
})
// remove-end
```

**v10 handles standard chains automatically via dashboard:**

```typescript
// add-start
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // Chain configuration managed via Web3Auth Developer Dashboard
})
// add-end
```

Configure your chains on the [Web3Auth Developer Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io) instead of in code.

### 4. Method Name Changes

```typescript
// Parameter rename
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  // remove-next-line
  useCoreKitKey: true,
  // add-next-line
  useSFAKey: true,
})

// Method rename
// remove-start
const userAuthInfo = await web3auth.authenticateUser()
// remove-end
// add-start
const userAuthInfo = await web3auth.getIdentityToken()
// add-end
const idToken = userAuthInfo.idToken
```

**External Wallet Adapters:** If you used external wallet adapters (MetaMask, Phantom, Solflare, etc.) in v8, see the 🔌 **[External Wallet Adapters Migration Guide](./external-wallets.mdx)** for migrating to the automatic detection system.

**Wallet Services:** If you used the `@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin` in v8, see the 🛠️ **[Wallet Services Migration Guide](./wallet-services.mdx)** for migrating to the built-in integration.

**Whitelabeling and UI Customization:** If you had whitelabeling configurations in v8, see the 📋 **[Whitelabeling Migration Guide](./whitelabeling.mdx)** for detailed steps.

**Custom Authentication:** If you used custom verifiers in v8, see the 🔐 **[Custom Authentication Migration Guide](./custom-authentication.mdx)** for migrating to the new Connections system.

## Complete Migration Example

Here's a complete before/after example showing the migration from v8 to v10:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v8" label="v8 Configuration">

```typescript
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
import { OpenloginAdapter } from '@web3auth/openlogin-adapter'
import { EthereumPrivateKeyProvider } from '@web3auth/ethereum-provider'
import { getEvmChainConfig } from '@web3auth/base'

const clientId = 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID'
const chainConfig = getEvmChainConfig(1, clientId)

const privateKeyProvider = new EthereumPrivateKeyProvider({
  config: { chainConfig },
})

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId,
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  privateKeyProvider,
})

const openloginAdapter = new OpenloginAdapter({
  loginSettings: {
    mfaLevel: 'optional',
  },
  adapterSettings: {
    whiteLabel: {
      name: 'Your App',
      logoLight: 'https://example.com/logo-light.png',
    },
  },
})

web3auth.configureAdapter(openloginAdapter)
await web3auth.initModal()
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="v10" label="v10 Configuration">

```typescript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // Chain configuration managed via dashboard
  // Branding configured via dashboard
  // No adapters needed for basic functionality
})

await web3auth.init()
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Dashboard Configuration Required

With v10, configurations that were previously done in code are now managed through the Web3Auth Developer Dashboard:

1. **Chain Configurations:** Add and configure your blockchain networks
2. **Branding & UI:** Set app name, logos, colors, and themes
3. **Login Methods:** Enable/disable social login providers

Visit the [Web3Auth Developer Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io) to configure these settings.

## Further Reading

- [Web3Auth Documentation - Web SDK v10](https://web3auth.io/embedded-wallets/sdk/js)
- [Web3Auth v10 Examples on GitHub](https://github.com/Web3Auth/web3auth-examples)
- [Join the Community](https://web3auth.io/community)

Commit message:

2483 e embedded wallets pass (#2614)
* style updates

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* fixes for cursor touching data outside scope

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* adds links from overview to docs pages and puts unused snippet into play

* links user from table to docs

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* rmvs more cursor false positives and aligns docs to mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style

* further alignment with mm style & fix for build

* further alignment with mm style

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/sdk/_common/_configure-paymaster-context.mdx

* reverts updates to comment txt and fixes ,, instances

* Reverted edits to comments and qa over prev

* Update formatting

* Apply suggestion from @m4sterbunny

* fixes following review

* tag along from other review

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <21066442+yashovardhan@users.noreply.github.com>

embedded-wallets/sdk/js/migration-guides/modal/v8-to-v10/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrating to the Web3Auth Web SDK v10 from v8
description: Learn what has changed from Web3Auth v8 to the v10 Web SDK with comprehensive migration steps and cleaner architecture.
sidebar_label: v8 to v10
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

# Web3Auth web SDK v8 to v10 migration guide

This guide will help you upgrade your Web3Auth SDK integration from v8 directly to the **unified Web3Auth Web SDK v10**, focusing on core package and initialization changes.

## Why migrate to v10?

Web3Auth v10 consolidates functionality into a single powerful SDK that centralizes configuration in the Dashboard and eliminates frontend adapter complexity.

Key improvements from v8 to v10:

- **Unified SDK Package:** Single `@web3auth/modal` package replaces multiple adapter packages
- **Dashboard-Centric Configuration:** Chain configurations managed via Web3Auth Developer Dashboard (now the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/))
- **Simplified Integration:** No more manual `OpenLoginAdapter` registration
- **Enhanced Developer Experience:** Cleaner API with better TypeScript support

## Installation

Update to the unified v10 SDK package:

```bash npm2yarn
npm uninstall @web3auth/modal @web3auth/openlogin-adapter @web3auth/wallet-services-plugin
npm install @web3auth/modal
```

For custom blockchain configurations:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @web3auth/ethereum-provider
```

## Breaking changes from v8 to v10

### 1. Unified SDK package structure

**v8 used separate packages:**

```typescript
// remove-start
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
import { OpenloginAdapter } from '@web3auth/openlogin-adapter'
import { WalletServicesPlugin } from '@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin'
// remove-end
```

**v10 uses a single package:**

```typescript
// add-start
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
// Most functionality is now built-in - no separate adapters needed for basic use cases
// add-end
```

### 2. Openloginadapter → authadapter → built-in (v8→v9→v10)

In v8, authentication used `OpenloginAdapter`. V9 renamed it to `AuthAdapter`. V10 eliminates the need for separate adapters in most cases.

```typescript
// remove-start
import { OpenloginAdapter } from '@web3auth/openlogin-adapter'

const openloginAdapter = new OpenloginAdapter({
  loginSettings: {
    mfaLevel: 'optional',
  },
  adapterSettings: {
    whiteLabel: {
      name: 'Your App',
      logoLight: 'https://example.com/logo-light.png',
      logoDark: 'https://example.com/logo-dark.png',
    },
  },
})

web3auth.configureAdapter(openloginAdapter)
// remove-end

// add-start
import { WEB3AUTH_NETWORK, MFA_LEVELS } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // MFA and branding now configured here or via dashboard
  mfaLevel: MFA_LEVELS.OPTIONAL,
})
// add-end
```

### 3. Chain configuration centralization

**v8 required manual chain and provider configuration:**

```typescript
// remove-start
import { EthereumPrivateKeyProvider } from '@web3auth/ethereum-provider'
import { getEvmChainConfig } from '@web3auth/base'

const chainConfig = getEvmChainConfig(1, 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID')

const privateKeyProvider = new EthereumPrivateKeyProvider({
  config: { chainConfig },
})

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  privateKeyProvider,
})
// remove-end
```

**v10 handles standard chains automatically via dashboard:**

```typescript
// add-start
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // Chain configuration managed via Web3Auth Developer Dashboard
})
// add-end
```

Configure your chains on the [Embedded Wallets dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io/) instead of in code.

### 4. Method name changes

```typescript
// Parameter rename
const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  // remove-next-line
  useCoreKitKey: true,
  // add-next-line
  useSFAKey: true,
})

// Method rename
// remove-start
const userAuthInfo = await web3auth.authenticateUser()
// remove-end
// add-start
const userAuthInfo = await web3auth.getIdentityToken()
// add-end
const idToken = userAuthInfo.idToken
```

**External Wallet Adapters:** If you used external wallet adapters (for example, MetaMask, Phantom, Solflare) in v8, see the 🔌 [External Wallet Adapters Migration Guide](./external-wallets.mdx) for migrating to the automatic detection system.

**Wallet Services:** If you used the `@web3auth/wallet-services-plugin` in v8, see the 🛠️ [Wallet Services migration guide](./wallet-services.mdx) for migrating to the built-in integration.

**Whitelabeling and UI customization:** If you had whitelabeling configurations in v8, see the 📋 [whitelabeling migration guide](./whitelabeling.mdx) for detailed steps.

**Custom authentication:** If you used custom verifiers in v8, see the 🔐 [custom authentication migration guide](./custom-authentication.mdx) for migrating to the new connections system.

## Complete migration example

Here's a complete before/after example showing the migration from v8 to v10:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="v8" label="v8 Configuration">

```typescript
import { Web3Auth } from '@web3auth/modal'
import { OpenloginAdapter } from '@web3auth/openlogin-adapter'
import { EthereumPrivateKeyProvider } from '@web3auth/ethereum-provider'
import { getEvmChainConfig } from '@web3auth/base'

const clientId = 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID'
const chainConfig = getEvmChainConfig(1, clientId)

const privateKeyProvider = new EthereumPrivateKeyProvider({
  config: { chainConfig },
})

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId,
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  privateKeyProvider,
})

const openloginAdapter = new OpenloginAdapter({
  loginSettings: {
    mfaLevel: 'optional',
  },
  adapterSettings: {
    whiteLabel: {
      name: 'Your App',
      logoLight: 'https://example.com/logo-light.png',
    },
  },
})

web3auth.configureAdapter(openloginAdapter)
await web3auth.initModal()
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="v10" label="v10 Configuration">

```typescript
import { Web3Auth, WEB3AUTH_NETWORK } from '@web3auth/modal'

const web3auth = new Web3Auth({
  clientId: 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID',
  web3AuthNetwork: WEB3AUTH_NETWORK.SAPPHIRE_MAINNET,
  // Chain configuration managed via dashboard
  // Branding configured via dashboard
  // No adapters needed for basic functionality
})

await web3auth.init()
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Dashboard configuration required

With v10, configurations that were previously done in code are now managed through the Web3Auth Developer Dashboard:

1. **Chain Configurations:** Add and configure your blockchain networks
2. **Branding and UI:** Set app name, logos, colors, and themes
3. **Login Methods:** Enable/disable social login providers

Configure these settings from the [Web3Auth Developer Dashboard](https://dashboard.web3auth.io).

## Next steps

- [Web3Auth Documentation - Web SDK v10](https://web3auth.io/embedded-wallets/sdk/js)
- [Web3Auth v10 Examples on GitHub](https://github.com/Web3Auth/web3auth-examples)
- [Join the community](https://web3auth.io/community)
