snaps/learn/tutorials/transaction-insights.md, before:

---
description: Create a Snap that provides transaction insights.
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Create a Snap to calculate gas fee percentages

This tutorial walks you through creating a Snap that calculates the percentage of gas fees they would 
pay for their transaction.

It gets the current gas price by calling the [`eth_gasPrice`](/wallet/reference/json-rpc-methods/eth_gasprice) RPC
method using the global Ethereum provider made available to Snaps, and displays this as a percentage 
of gas fees in a tab in MetaMask's transaction confirmation window.

## Prerequisites

- [MetaMask Flask installed](../../get-started/install-flask.md)
- An account on your MetaMask Flask instance with testnet ETH
  :::tip
  You can use [Infura's Sepolia faucet](https://www.infura.io/faucet) to get Sepolia ETH.
  :::
- A text editor (for example, [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/))
- [Node](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) version 20.11 or later
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

## Steps

### 1. Set up the project

Create a new Snap project using the
[`@metamask/create-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/create-snap)
starter kit by running:

```bash
yarn create @metamask/snap transaction-insights-snap
```

Next, `cd` into the `transaction-insights-snap` project directory and run:

```bash
yarn install
```

This initializes your development environment with the required dependencies. 

<details>
  <summary>Did you get a warning?</summary>
  <div>
You may get a warning such as: 

```bash
@lavamoat/allow-scripts has detected dependencies without configuration. explicit configuration required.
run "allow-scripts auto" to automatically populate the configuration.
```

You can resolve the issue by running: 

```bash
yarn run allow-scripts auto
``` 
  </div>
</details>

### 2. (Optional) Customize your Snap's UX

This Snap is generated from a TypeScript template Snap. We recommend customizing your 
Snap to improve its UX, but this is optional for testing. If you don't wish to customize your Snap, 
skip to [Step 3](#3-enable-transaction-insights-and-the-ethereum-provider).

#### 2.1. Provide an icon 

[Optimize your metadata](../best-practices/design-guidelines.md#optimize-your-metadata) and display an 
icon for your Snap in MetaMask.

Create a new folder `images` in the Snap package `packages/snap/`:

```bash
mkdir packages/snap/images
```

Download
[this `gas.svg` icon file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Montoya/gas-fee-snap/main/packages/snap/images/gas.svg)
into that `images` folder.  

<details>
  <summary>Icon attribution</summary>
  <div>
This is a free icon, "Gas" by Mello from the [Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/browse/icons/term/gas/).
  </div>
</details>

Your file structure should look like this:

```text
transaction-insights-snap/
├─ packages/
│  ├─ site/
|  |  |- src/
|  |  |  |- App.tsx
|  |  ├─ package.json
|  |  |- ...(React app content)
|  |
│  ├─ snap/
|  |  ├─ images/
|  |  |  |- gas.svg
|  |  ├─ src/
|  |  |  |- index.test.ts
|  |  |  |- index.ts
|  |  ├─ snap.manifest.json
|  |  ├─ package.json
|  |  |- ... (Snap content)
├─ package.json
├─ ... (other stuff)
```

Open `packages/snap/snap.manifest.json` in a text editor. This file contains the main configuration 
details for your Snap. Edit the `npm` object, within the `location` object, and add `iconPath` with 
the value `"images/gas.svg"` to point to your new icon:

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
"location": {
  "npm": {
    "filePath": "dist/bundle.js",
    "iconPath": "images/gas.svg",
    "packageName": "snap",
    "registry": "https://registry.npmjs.org/"
  }
}
```

Open `packages/snap/package.json` in a text editor. Edit the `files` array and reference the 
`images/` folder:

```json title="package.json"
"files": [
  "dist/",
  "images/",
  "snap.manifest.json"
],
```

#### 2.2. Update your Snap's name

[Optimize your metadata](../best-practices/design-guidelines.md#optimize-your-metadata) and update
your Snap's name in MetaMask.
MetaMask uses the `proposedName` of the Snap, currently "TypeScript Example" in the template.

Open `packages/snap/snap.manifest.json` in a text editor.
Edit the `"proposedName"` property within the metadata to provide a functional name such as "Gas Percentage Calculator":

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
{
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "description": "An example Snap written in TypeScript.",
  "proposedName": "Gas Percentage Calculator",
  ...
}
```

#### 2.3. Disable the non-functional button

Open `packages/site/src/pages/index.tsx` in a text editor.
The template comes with a button, `SendHelloButton`, that is non-functional for this example.
To prevent a user triggering errors, disable `SendHelloButton` by updating `disabled={!installedSnap}` as follows:

```typescript title="index.tsx"
button: (
  <SendHelloButton
    onClick={handleSendHelloClick}
    disabled={true}
  />
),
````

These three updates are the minimum required to ensure that each user interaction with your Snap is well-informed.
However, your Snap will function without these tweaks.

### 3. Enable transaction insights and the Ethereum provider

To enable your Snap to provide [transaction insights](../../features/transaction-insights.md) and
use the global Ethereum provider, request the
[`endowment:transaction-insight`](../../reference/permissions.md#endowmenttransaction-insight) and
[`endowment:ethereum-provider`](../../reference/permissions.md#endowmentethereum-provider)
permissions in `packages/snap/snap.manifest.json`:

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
"initialPermissions": {
  "endowment:transaction-insight": {},
  "endowment:ethereum-provider": {}
},
```

:::tip
In this tutorial, you can replace what was previously in `initialPermissions`.
You do not need any permissions other than `endowment:transaction-insight` and `endowment:ethereum-provider`.
:::

### 4. Calculate and display the percentage of gas fees

To calculate and display the gas fees a user would pay as a percentage of their outgoing transaction,
replace the code in `packages/snap/src/index.ts` with the following:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="JSX">

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import type { OnTransactionHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk";
import { Box, Heading, Text, Bold } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

// Handle outgoing transactions.
export const onTransaction: OnTransactionHandler = async ({ transaction }) => {

  // Use the Ethereum provider to fetch the gas price.
  const currentGasPrice = await ethereum.request({
    method: "eth_gasPrice",
  }) as string;

  // Get fields from the transaction object.
  const transactionGas = parseInt(transaction.gas as string, 16);
  const currentGasPriceInWei = parseInt(currentGasPrice ?? "", 16);
  const maxFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(transaction.maxFeePerGas as string, 16);
  const maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(
    transaction.maxPriorityFeePerGas as string,
    16,
  );

  // Calculate gas fees the user would pay.
  const gasFees = Math.min(
    maxFeePerGasInWei * transactionGas,
    (currentGasPriceInWei + maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei) * transactionGas,
  );

  // Calculate gas fees as percentage of transaction.
  const transactionValueInWei = parseInt(transaction.value as string, 16);
  const gasFeesPercentage = (gasFees / (gasFees + transactionValueInWei)) * 100;

  // Display percentage of gas fees in the transaction insights UI.
  return {
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Transaction insights Snap</Heading>
        <Text>
          As set up, you are paying <Bold>{gasFeesPercentage.toFixed(2)}%</Bold>
          in gas fees for this transaction.
        </Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  };
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Functions" deprecated>

```typescript title="index.ts"
import type { OnTransactionHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"
import { heading, panel, text } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"

// Handle outgoing transactions.
export const onTransaction: OnTransactionHandler = async ({ transaction }) => {
  // Use the Ethereum provider to fetch the gas price.
  const currentGasPrice = (await ethereum.request({
    method: "eth_gasPrice",
  })) as string

  // Get fields from the transaction object.
  const transactionGas = parseInt(transaction.gas as string, 16)
  const currentGasPriceInWei = parseInt(currentGasPrice ?? "", 16)
  const maxFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(transaction.maxFeePerGas as string, 16)
  const maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(
    transaction.maxPriorityFeePerGas as string,
    16
  )

  // Calculate gas fees the user would pay.
  const gasFees = Math.min(
    maxFeePerGasInWei * transactionGas,
    (currentGasPriceInWei + maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei) * transactionGas
  )

  // Calculate gas fees as percentage of transaction.
  const transactionValueInWei = parseInt(transaction.value as string, 16)
  const gasFeesPercentage = (gasFees / (gasFees + transactionValueInWei)) * 100

  // Display percentage of gas fees in the transaction insights UI.
  return {
    content: panel([
      heading("Transaction insights Snap"),
      text(
        `As set up, you are paying **${gasFeesPercentage.toFixed(2)}%**
        in gas fees for this transaction.`
      ),
    ]),
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip
If you have previously developed a dapp, you're likely familiar with accessing the Ethereum provider 
using `window.ethereum`. In a Snap, the `window` object is not available. Instead, when you request 
the `endowment:ethereum-provider` permission, your Snap is granted access to the 
[`ethereum` global object](../about-snaps/apis.md#snap-requests).
:::

### 5. Build and test your Snap

Complete the following steps to build and test your Snap:

#### 5.1. Build your Snap

From the command line, run `yarn start`.
The following displays:

```bash
You can now view site in the browser.

 http://localhost:8000/
```

Open [`localhost:8000`](http://localhost:8000) in your browser (with MetaMask Flask installed).
A template test dapp displays, for installing and testing your Snap.

#### 5.2. Test your Snap

Select **Connect** and accept the permission request.

After connecting, you're prompted to install the Snap with the following permissions:
- **Access the Ethereum provider** 
- **Fetch and display transaction insights**

Next, select **Confirm** > **OK**.

From MetaMask Flask, create a new testnet ETH transfer. 

:::tip

You can set up [multiple accounts](https://support.metamask.io/managing-my-wallet/accounts-and-addresses/how-to-add-accounts-in-your-wallet/) to transfer between your accounts.

:::

Next, from the transaction confirmation window in MetaMask, switch to the tab named **TYPESCRIPT EXAMPLE SNAP** (or **Gas Percentage Calculator** if you followed Step 2).
Switching to the tab activates the [`onTransaction`](../../reference/entry-points.md#ontransaction)
entry point of your Snap and displays the percentage of gas fees in the transaction insights UI:

<p align="center">
<img src={require('../../assets/transaction-insights.png').default} alt="Transaction insights UI" width="400px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

:::warning

The template **Send message** button is inoperable.
The default template Snap used in [Create a gas estimation Snap](gas-estimation.md)
is configured to expose a JSON-RPC API with a simple hello command, which brings up a dialog box.
In contrast, the Snap you're creating in this tutorial doesn't expose an API.
Instead, it provides transaction insights directly in a tab in MetaMask's transaction confirmation window.

:::

### Next steps

Consider improving your Snap's functionality further.

#### Display a different UI for contract interactions

Your Snap displays a gas fee percentage for ETH transfers initiated by the user.
For contract interactions, add the following code to the beginning of the `onTransaction` entry point:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="JSX">

```tsx title="index.tsx"
if (typeof transaction.data === "string" && transaction.data !== "0x") {
  return {
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Gas Percentage Calculator</Heading>
        <Text>
          This Snap only provides transaction insights for simple ETH transfers.
        </Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  };
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Functions" deprecated>

```typescript title="index.ts"
if (typeof transaction.data === "string" && transaction.data !== "0x") {
  return {
    content: panel([
      heading("Gas Percentage Calculator"),
      text(
        "This Snap only provides transaction insights for simple ETH transfers."
      ),
    ]),
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Customize your Snap

You can improve your Snap's UX by completing [Step 2](#2-optional-customize-your-snaps-ux). Consider 
updating `packages/site/src/pages/index.tsx` to remove the 
non-functional **Send message** button.

Before publishing a Snap, it's also important to customize the metadata and properties of your Snap, 
for example:
- Update the `location` in `snap.manifest.json` to your Snap's published location.
- Update the `description` in `snap.manifest.json` to a description of your Snap.
- Update the `name`, `version`, `description`, and `repository` fields of
`/packages/snap/package.json` (even if you do not plan to publish your Snap to npm).

:::note
When editing `source`, the `shasum` is set automatically when you build from the command line.
:::

:::caution important
The `version` and `repository` fields in `snap.manifest.json` inherit the values from
`package.json` and overwrite them in `snap.manifest.json`.
We recommend updating `version` and `repository` in `package.json` first, then building the Snap project.
:::

After you've made all necessary changes, you can [publish your Snap to npm](../../how-to/publish-a-snap.md).

Commit message:

Update transaction-related content (#1927)
Co-authored-by: Christian Montoya <christian.montoya@consensys.net>

snaps/learn/tutorials/transaction-insights.md, after:

---
description: Create a Snap that provides transaction insights.
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Create a Snap to calculate gas fee percentages

This tutorial walks you through creating a Snap that calculates the percentage of gas fees they would 
pay for their transaction.

It gets the current gas price by calling the [`eth_gasPrice`](/wallet/reference/json-rpc-methods/eth_gasprice) RPC
method using the global Ethereum provider made available to Snaps, and displays this as a percentage 
of gas fees in a tab in MetaMask's transaction confirmation window.

## Prerequisites

- [MetaMask Flask installed](../../get-started/install-flask.md)
- An account on your MetaMask Flask instance with testnet ETH
  :::tip
  You can use [Infura's Sepolia faucet](https://www.infura.io/faucet) to get Sepolia ETH.
  :::
- A text editor (for example, [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/))
- [Node](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) version 20.11 or later
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

## Steps

### 1. Set up the project

Create a new Snap project using the
[`@metamask/create-snap`](https://github.com/MetaMask/snaps/tree/main/packages/create-snap)
starter kit by running:

```bash
yarn create @metamask/snap transaction-insights-snap
```

Next, `cd` into the `transaction-insights-snap` project directory and run:

```bash
yarn install
```

This initializes your development environment with the required dependencies. 

<details>
  <summary>Did you get a warning?</summary>
  <div>
You may get a warning such as: 

```bash
@lavamoat/allow-scripts has detected dependencies without configuration. explicit configuration required.
run "allow-scripts auto" to automatically populate the configuration.
```

You can resolve the issue by running: 

```bash
yarn run allow-scripts auto
``` 
  </div>
</details>

### 2. (Optional) Customize your Snap's UX

This Snap is generated from a TypeScript template Snap. We recommend customizing your 
Snap to improve its UX, but this is optional for testing. If you don't wish to customize your Snap, 
skip to [Step 3](#3-enable-transaction-insights-and-the-ethereum-provider).

#### 2.1. Provide an icon 

[Optimize your metadata](../best-practices/design-guidelines.md#optimize-your-metadata) and display an 
icon for your Snap in MetaMask.

Create a new folder `images` in the Snap package `packages/snap/`:

```bash
mkdir packages/snap/images
```

Download
[this `gas.svg` icon file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Montoya/gas-fee-snap/main/packages/snap/images/gas.svg)
into that `images` folder.  

<details>
  <summary>Icon attribution</summary>
  <div>
This is a free icon, "Gas" by Mello from the [Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/browse/icons/term/gas/).
  </div>
</details>

Your file structure should look like this:

```text
transaction-insights-snap/
├─ packages/
│  ├─ site/
|  |  |- src/
|  |  |  |- App.tsx
|  |  ├─ package.json
|  |  |- ...(React app content)
|  |
│  ├─ snap/
|  |  ├─ images/
|  |  |  |- gas.svg
|  |  ├─ src/
|  |  |  |- index.test.ts
|  |  |  |- index.ts
|  |  ├─ snap.manifest.json
|  |  ├─ package.json
|  |  |- ... (Snap content)
├─ package.json
├─ ... (other stuff)
```

Open `packages/snap/snap.manifest.json` in a text editor. This file contains the main configuration 
details for your Snap. Edit the `npm` object, within the `location` object, and add `iconPath` with 
the value `"images/gas.svg"` to point to your new icon:

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
"location": {
  "npm": {
    "filePath": "dist/bundle.js",
    "iconPath": "images/gas.svg",
    "packageName": "snap",
    "registry": "https://registry.npmjs.org/"
  }
}
```

Open `packages/snap/package.json` in a text editor. Edit the `files` array and reference the 
`images/` folder:

```json title="package.json"
"files": [
  "dist/",
  "images/",
  "snap.manifest.json"
],
```

#### 2.2. Update your Snap's name

[Optimize your metadata](../best-practices/design-guidelines.md#optimize-your-metadata) and update
your Snap's name in MetaMask.
MetaMask uses the `proposedName` of the Snap, currently "TypeScript Example" in the template.

Open `packages/snap/snap.manifest.json` in a text editor.
Edit the `"proposedName"` property within the metadata to provide a functional name such as "Gas Percentage Calculator":

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
{
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "description": "An example Snap written in TypeScript.",
  "proposedName": "Gas Percentage Calculator",
  ...
}
```

#### 2.3. Disable the non-functional button

Open `packages/site/src/pages/index.tsx` in a text editor.
The template comes with a button, `SendHelloButton`, that is non-functional for this example.
To prevent a user triggering errors, disable `SendHelloButton` by updating `disabled={!installedSnap}` as follows:

```typescript title="index.tsx"
button: (
  <SendHelloButton
    onClick={handleSendHelloClick}
    disabled={true}
  />
),
````

These three updates are the minimum required to ensure that each user interaction with your Snap is well-informed.
However, your Snap will function without these tweaks.

### 3. Enable transaction insights and the Ethereum provider

To enable your Snap to provide [transaction insights](../../features/transaction-insights.md) and
use the global Ethereum provider, request the
[`endowment:transaction-insight`](../../reference/permissions.md#endowmenttransaction-insight) and
[`endowment:ethereum-provider`](../../reference/permissions.md#endowmentethereum-provider)
permissions in `packages/snap/snap.manifest.json`:

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
"initialPermissions": {
  "endowment:transaction-insight": {},
  "endowment:ethereum-provider": {}
},
```

:::tip
In this tutorial, you can replace what was previously in `initialPermissions`.
You do not need any permissions other than `endowment:transaction-insight` and `endowment:ethereum-provider`.
:::

### 4. Calculate and display the percentage of gas fees

To calculate and display the gas fees a user would pay as a percentage of their outgoing transaction,
replace the code in `packages/snap/src/index.ts` with the following:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="JSX">

```tsx title="index.tsx"
import type { OnTransactionHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk";
import { Box, Heading, Text, Bold } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk/jsx";

// Handle outgoing transactions.
export const onTransaction: OnTransactionHandler = async ({ transaction }) => {

  // Use the Ethereum provider to fetch the gas price.
  const currentGasPrice = await ethereum.request({
    method: "eth_gasPrice",
  }) as string;

  // Get fields from the transaction object.
  const transactionGas = parseInt(transaction.gas as string, 16);
  const currentGasPriceInWei = parseInt(currentGasPrice ?? "", 16);
  const maxFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(transaction.maxFeePerGas as string, 16);
  const maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(
    transaction.maxPriorityFeePerGas as string,
    16,
  );

  // Calculate gas fees the user would pay.
  const gasFees = Math.min(
    maxFeePerGasInWei * transactionGas,
    (currentGasPriceInWei + maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei) * transactionGas,
  );

  // Calculate gas fees as percentage of transaction.
  const transactionValueInWei = parseInt(transaction.value as string, 16);
  const gasFeesPercentage = (gasFees / (gasFees + transactionValueInWei)) * 100;

  // Display percentage of gas fees in the transaction insights UI.
  return {
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Transaction insights Snap</Heading>
        <Text>
          As set up, you are paying <Bold>{gasFeesPercentage.toFixed(2)}%</Bold>
          in gas fees for this transaction.
        </Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  };
};
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Functions" deprecated>

```typescript title="index.ts"
import type { OnTransactionHandler } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"
import { heading, panel, text } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk"

// Handle outgoing transactions.
export const onTransaction: OnTransactionHandler = async ({ transaction }) => {
  // Use the Ethereum provider to fetch the gas price.
  const currentGasPrice = (await ethereum.request({
    method: "eth_gasPrice",
  })) as string

  // Get fields from the transaction object.
  const transactionGas = parseInt(transaction.gas as string, 16)
  const currentGasPriceInWei = parseInt(currentGasPrice ?? "", 16)
  const maxFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(transaction.maxFeePerGas as string, 16)
  const maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei = parseInt(
    transaction.maxPriorityFeePerGas as string,
    16
  )

  // Calculate gas fees the user would pay.
  const gasFees = Math.min(
    maxFeePerGasInWei * transactionGas,
    (currentGasPriceInWei + maxPriorityFeePerGasInWei) * transactionGas
  )

  // Calculate gas fees as percentage of transaction.
  const transactionValueInWei = parseInt(transaction.value as string, 16)
  const gasFeesPercentage = (gasFees / (gasFees + transactionValueInWei)) * 100

  // Display percentage of gas fees in the transaction insights UI.
  return {
    content: panel([
      heading("Transaction insights Snap"),
      text(
        `As set up, you are paying **${gasFeesPercentage.toFixed(2)}%**
        in gas fees for this transaction.`
      ),
    ]),
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note Notes

- Learn more about the [parameters of a submitted transaction](/wallet/how-to/send-transactions#transaction-parameters).

- If you have previously developed a dapp, you're likely familiar with accessing the Ethereum provider 
using `window.ethereum`. In a Snap, the `window` object is not available. Instead, when you request 
the `endowment:ethereum-provider` permission, your Snap is granted access to the 
[`ethereum` global object](../about-snaps/apis.md#snap-requests).

:::

### 5. Build and test your Snap

Complete the following steps to build and test your Snap:

#### 5.1. Build your Snap

From the command line, run `yarn start`.
The following displays:

```bash
You can now view site in the browser.

 http://localhost:8000/
```

Open [`localhost:8000`](http://localhost:8000) in your browser (with MetaMask Flask installed).
A template test dapp displays, for installing and testing your Snap.

#### 5.2. Test your Snap

Select **Connect** and accept the permission request.

After connecting, you're prompted to install the Snap with the following permissions:
- **Access the Ethereum provider** 
- **Fetch and display transaction insights**

Next, select **Confirm** > **OK**.

From MetaMask Flask, create a new testnet ETH transfer. 

:::tip

You can set up [multiple accounts](https://support.metamask.io/managing-my-wallet/accounts-and-addresses/how-to-add-accounts-in-your-wallet/) to transfer between your accounts.

:::

Next, from the transaction confirmation window in MetaMask, switch to the tab named **TYPESCRIPT EXAMPLE SNAP** (or **Gas Percentage Calculator** if you followed Step 2).
Switching to the tab activates the [`onTransaction`](../../reference/entry-points.md#ontransaction)
entry point of your Snap and displays the percentage of gas fees in the transaction insights UI:

<p align="center">
<img src={require('../../assets/transaction-insights.png').default} alt="Transaction insights UI" width="400px" class="appScreen" />
</p>

:::warning

The template **Send message** button is inoperable.
The default template Snap used in [Create a gas estimation Snap](gas-estimation.md)
is configured to expose a JSON-RPC API with a simple hello command, which brings up a dialog box.
In contrast, the Snap you're creating in this tutorial doesn't expose an API.
Instead, it provides transaction insights directly in a tab in MetaMask's transaction confirmation window.

:::

### Next steps

Consider improving your Snap's functionality further.

#### Display a different UI for contract interactions

Your Snap displays a gas fee percentage for ETH transfers initiated by the user.
For contract interactions, add the following code to the beginning of the `onTransaction` entry point:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="JSX">

```tsx title="index.tsx"
if (typeof transaction.data === "string" && transaction.data !== "0x") {
  return {
    content: (
      <Box>
        <Heading>Gas Percentage Calculator</Heading>
        <Text>
          This Snap only provides transaction insights for simple ETH transfers.
        </Text>
      </Box>
    ),
  };
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Functions" deprecated>

```typescript title="index.ts"
if (typeof transaction.data === "string" && transaction.data !== "0x") {
  return {
    content: panel([
      heading("Gas Percentage Calculator"),
      text(
        "This Snap only provides transaction insights for simple ETH transfers."
      ),
    ]),
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Customize your Snap

You can improve your Snap's UX by completing [Step 2](#2-optional-customize-your-snaps-ux). Consider 
updating `packages/site/src/pages/index.tsx` to remove the 
non-functional **Send message** button.

Before publishing a Snap, it's also important to customize the metadata and properties of your Snap, 
for example:
- Update the `location` in `snap.manifest.json` to your Snap's published location.
- Update the `description` in `snap.manifest.json` to a description of your Snap.
- Update the `name`, `version`, `description`, and `repository` fields of
`/packages/snap/package.json` (even if you do not plan to publish your Snap to npm).

:::note
When editing `source`, the `shasum` is set automatically when you build from the command line.
:::

:::caution important
The `version` and `repository` fields in `snap.manifest.json` inherit the values from
`package.json` and overwrite them in `snap.manifest.json`.
We recommend updating `version` and `repository` in `package.json` first, then building the Snap project.
:::

After you've made all necessary changes, you can [publish your Snap to npm](../../how-to/publish-a-snap.md).
