services/reference/zksync/json-rpc-methods/zks_getl2tol1msgproof.mdx, before:

---
title: "zks_getL2ToL1MsgProof"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

Returns the proof for a message sent through the L1Messenger system contract, given a
block, sender, message, and an optional message log index containing the L1 to L2 message.

## Parameters

- `block`: (integer) [_Required_] Block where the message was emitted.
- `sender`: (string) [_Required_] The sender (account) of the message.
- `msg`: [_Required_] The keccak256 hash of the sent message.
- `l2_log_position`: The index in the block of the event that was emitted by the L1Messenger
  when submitting this message. If it is omitted, the proof for the first message is returned.

## Response

- `id` - The position of the leaf in the Merkle tree of L2 to L1 messages for the block.
- `proof` - The Merkle proof for the message.
- `root` - The root hash representing the Merkle tree root at the time the log was generated.

## Example

Replace `YOUR-API-KEY` with an API key from your [Infura dashboard](https://infura.io/dashboard).

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="cURL">

```bash
curl https://zksync-mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR-API-KEY \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "zks_getL2ToL1MsgProof", "params": [5187, "0x87869cb87c4Fa78ca278dF358E890FF73B42a39E", "0x22de7debaa98758afdaee89f447ff43bab5da3de6acca7528b281cc2f1be2ee9"]}'
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">
  ```json
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": "0x25f64db",
    "id": 2
  }
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Add ZKsync WebSocket support. (#1438)
* Add ZKsync WebSocket support.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Add What's new.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Apply suggestions from code review

* update spacing

* Update all endpoints topic.

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

* Update code sample

---------

Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>
Co-authored-by: Joan E <153745173+joaniefromtheblock@users.noreply.github.com>

services/reference/zksync/json-rpc-methods/zks_getl2tol1msgproof.mdx, after:

---
title: "zks_getL2ToL1MsgProof"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Returns the proof for a message sent through the L1Messenger system contract, given a
block, sender, message, and an optional message log index containing the L1 to L2 message. 

## Parameters

- `block`: (integer) [_Required_] Block where the message was emitted.
- `sender`: (string) [_Required_] The sender (account) of the message.
- `msg`: [_Required_] The keccak256 hash of the sent message.
- `l2_log_position`: The index in the block of the event that was emitted by the L1Messenger
    when submitting this message. If it is omitted, the proof for the first message is returned.

## Response

- `id` - The position of the leaf in the Merkle tree of L2 to L1 messages for the block.
- `proof` - The Merkle proof for the message.
- `root` - The root hash representing the Merkle tree root at the time the log was generated.

## Example

Replace `YOUR-API-KEY` with an API key from your [Infura dashboard](https://infura.io/dashboard).

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="cURL">

  ```bash
  curl https://zksync-mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR-API-KEY \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "zks_getL2ToL1MsgProof", "params": [5187, "0x87869cb87c4Fa78ca278dF358E890FF73B42a39E", "0x22de7debaa98758afdaee89f447ff43bab5da3de6acca7528b281cc2f1be2ee9"]}'
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="WSS">

```bash
wscat -c wss://zksync-mainnet.infura.io/ws/v3/YOUR-API-KEY -x '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "zks_getL2ToL1MsgProof", "params": [5187, "0x87869cb87c4Fa78ca278dF358E890FF73B42a39E", "0x22de7debaa98758afdaee89f447ff43bab5da3de6acca7528b281cc2f1be2ee9"]}'
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">
  ```json
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": "0x25f64db",
    "id": 2
  }
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
