services/reference/zksync/json-rpc-methods/zks_getproof.mdx, before:

---
title: "zks_getProof"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

Returns Merkle proofs for one or more storage values for the specified account along with a Merkle proof
of their authenticity. This allows you to verify that the values have not been tampered with.

## Parameters

- `address`: [_Required_] The account to fetch storage values and proofs for.
- `keys`: [_Required_] Vector of storage keys in the account.
- `l1BatchNumber`: [_Required_] Number of the L1 batch specifying the point in time at which the requested values are returned.

## Response

- `address`: The account address.
- `storageProof`: Proof for each of the requested keys in the order at which they were requested:
  - `key` - The requested storage key.
  - `value` - The storage value.
  - `index` - Index of the tree entry.
  - `proof` - Sequence of zero or more 32-byte hashes that form a Merkle path for the key in the Merkle tree.
    Hashes are listed using the root-to-leaf ordering. The root hash is excluded; it is published on L1 as a part of L1 batch commit data.

## Example

Replace `YOUR-API-KEY` with an API key from your [Infura dashboard](https://infura.io/dashboard).

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="cURL">

```bash
curl https://zksync-mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR-API-KEY \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "zks_getProof", "params": ["0x0000000000000000000000000000000000008003", ["0x8b65c0cf1012ea9f393197eb24619fd814379b298b238285649e14f936a5eb12"], 354895]}'
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">
  ```json
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
      "address": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000008003",
      "storageProof": [
        {
          "key": "0x8b65c0cf1012ea9f393197eb24619fd814379b298b238285649e14f936a5eb12",
          "proof": [
            "0xe3e8e49a998b3abf8926f62a5a832d829aadc1b7e059f1ea59ffbab8e11edfb7",
            "0x9bebfa036e85a6ffb6bf447a9c7d41af176642c6aaf5cfbc97128f4f10d8a25a",
            ...
            "0x9ebd7b37a21fb0c74d0040a941038887caf4e4c7dfaa182b82915cacc6191025",
            "0x4550ab30af8c76557a74d051eb43a964889d383d6da343c6a4f4799595d86f9c"
          ],
          "value": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000060",
          "index": 27900957
        }
      ]
    },
    "id": 1
  }

```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

Commit message:

Add ZKsync WebSocket support.
Signed-off-by: bgravenorst <byron.gravenorst@consensys.net>

services/reference/zksync/json-rpc-methods/zks_getproof.mdx, after:

---
title: "zks_getProof"
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Returns Merkle proofs for one or more storage values for the specified account along with a Merkle proof
of their authenticity. This allows you to verify that the values have not been tampered with.

## Parameters

- `address`: [_Required_] The account to fetch storage values and proofs for.
- `keys`: [_Required_] Vector of storage keys in the account.
- `l1BatchNumber`: [_Required_] Number of the L1 batch specifying the point in time at which the requested values are returned.


## Response

- `address`: The account address.
- `storageProof`: Proof for each of the requested keys in the order at which they were requested:
    - `key`	- The requested storage key.
    - `value` - The storage value.
    - `index` -	Index of the tree entry.
    - `proof`	-	Sequence of zero or more 32-byte hashes that form a Merkle path for the key in the Merkle tree.
        Hashes are listed using the root-to-leaf ordering. The root hash is excluded; it is published on L1 as a part of L1 batch commit data. 

## Example

Replace `YOUR-API-KEY` with an API key from your [Infura dashboard](https://infura.io/dashboard).

### Request

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="cURL">

  ```bash
  curl https://zksync-mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR-API-KEY \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "zks_getProof", "params": ["0x0000000000000000000000000000000000008003", ["0x8b65c0cf1012ea9f393197eb24619fd814379b298b238285649e14f936a5eb12"], 354895]}'
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="WSS">

```bash
wscat -c wss://zksync-mainnet.infura.io/ws/v3/YOUR-API-KEY -x '{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 1, "method": "zks_getProof", "params": ["0x0000000000000000000000000000000000008003", ["0x8b65c0cf1012ea9f393197eb24619fd814379b298b238285649e14f936a5eb12"], 354895]}'
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="JSON">
  ```json
  {
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
      "address": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000008003",
      "storageProof": [
        {
          "key": "0x8b65c0cf1012ea9f393197eb24619fd814379b298b238285649e14f936a5eb12",
          "proof": [
            "0xe3e8e49a998b3abf8926f62a5a832d829aadc1b7e059f1ea59ffbab8e11edfb7",
            "0x9bebfa036e85a6ffb6bf447a9c7d41af176642c6aaf5cfbc97128f4f10d8a25a",
            ...
            "0x9ebd7b37a21fb0c74d0040a941038887caf4e4c7dfaa182b82915cacc6191025",
            "0x4550ab30af8c76557a74d051eb43a964889d383d6da343c6a4f4799595d86f9c"
          ],
          "value": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000060",
          "index": 27900957
        }
      ]
    },
    "id": 1
  }

  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
