embedded-wallets/troubleshooting/vite-issues.mdx, before:

---
title: Bundler Polyfill Issues - Vite
image: 'img/metamaskog.jpg'
sidebar_label: Vite Polyfill Issues
description: 'Bundler Polyfill Issues - Vite | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

While setting up a new web3 project from scratch, you might face multiple issues with the bundler. This issue is caused because the core packages like `eccrypto` have certain dependencies, which are not present within the build environment. For rectifying this, the go-to method has been to just add the missing modules directly into the package, and edit the bundler configuration to take advantage of that.

Although this method works, it increases the bundle size significantly. Causing slow loading speeds and a bad user experience. It is important to note that these modules, even while the build fails, are still present within the browser environment. Many libraries like Web3Auth are written in a way to take advantage of this fact. Hence, even if the build doesn't contain the polyfill, the library should still work as expected. However, if you are using a library that does not take advantage of this fact, you might face issues while using the library.

Hence, you need to be mindful of the fact that you only require certain node polyfills to be added to your project, while testing each of its functionalities. At the same time, you need to tell the bundler to ignore the missing modules, and not include them in the build.

In this guide, we have added instructions for adding the polyfills in Vite:

## Install the missing modules

Check for the missing libraries in your build and included packages, and accordingly polyfill them. For Web3Auth, you just need to polyfill the `buffer` and `process` libraries.

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev buffer process
```

## Adding the polyfills to your project

Update the `index.html` file to include the polyfills. As shown in the code snippet below we added the `<script>` tag to include the polyfills.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <!--focus-start-->
    <script type="module">
      import { Buffer } from 'buffer'
      import process from 'process'
      window.Buffer = Buffer
      window.process = process
    </script>
    <!--focus-end-->
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/vite.svg" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script type="module" src="/src/main.tsx"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

## Update your `vite.config.js`

Additional to the polyfilled modules, you need to update the `nuxt.config.js` file to define the `global` object.

:::warning

There might be a possibility that you might need to polyfill more libraries, in case you're using any other blockchain library alongside Web3Auth that requires them. Generally the libraries like `crypto-browserify`, `stream-browserify`, `browserify-zlib`, `assert`, `stream-http`, `https-browserify`, `os-browserify`, `url` are the ones that might be required. `crypto-browserify` and `url` being the most common polyfills.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="react"
  values={[
    { label: "React", value: "react" },
    { label: "Vue", value: "vue" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="react">

```tsx
/* eslint-disable import/no-extraneous-dependencies */
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react'
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react()],
  // alias are only to be added when absolutely necessary, these modules are already present in the browser environment
  // resolve: {
  // alias: {
  // crypto: "crypto-browserify",
  // assert: "assert",
  // http: "stream-http",
  // https: "https-browserify",
  // url: "url",
  // zlib: "browserify-zlib",
  // stream: "stream-browserify",
  // },
  // },
  define: {
    global: 'globalThis',
  },
})
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="vue">

```tsx
/* eslint-disable import/no-extraneous-dependencies */
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [vue()],
  // alias are only to be added when absolutely necessary, these modules are already present in the browser environment
  // resolve: {
  // alias: {
  // crypto: "crypto-browserify",
  // assert: "assert",
  // http: "stream-http",
  // https: "https-browserify",
  // url: "url",
  // zlib: "browserify-zlib",
  // stream: "stream-browserify",
  // },
  // },
  define: {
    global: 'globalThis',
  },
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Proofing pass over Troubleshooting and How it Works (#2653)
* Starts pass over Troubleshooting and How it Works

* begins proofing round

* proofing round over troubleshooting

* linting round

* vale linted

* Update embedded-wallets/troubleshooting/README.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/troubleshooting/README.mdx

* Update embedded-wallets/troubleshooting/webpack-issues.mdx

* link fixes

---------

Co-authored-by: Yashovardhan Agrawal <yashovardhan.agrawal@gmail.com>

embedded-wallets/troubleshooting/vite-issues.mdx, after:

---
title: Bundler Polyfill issues - Vite
image: 'img/metamaskog.jpg'
sidebar_label: Vite polyfill issues
description: 'Bundler Polyfill Issues - Vite | Embedded Wallets'
---

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'

While setting up a new Web3 project from scratch, you might face bundler issues. This can occur because the 
core packages like `eccrypto` have dependencies which are not present within the build environment. 

To rectify this, the go-to method is to add the missing modules directly into the package, and edit the bundler 
configuration to use those. Although this approach works, it can significantly increase bundle size, leading 
to slower load times and a degraded user experience. 

Some libraries rely on environment-specific modules that may be available at runtime in the browser even if 
they are not bundled. Libraries such as Embedded Wallets’ Web3Auth take advantage of this behavior and can 
function correctly without bundling all modules. However, if you are using a library that does not take 
advantage of this, you might face issues.

To avoid unnecessary overhead, include only the required polyfills, test functionality, and 
configure your bundler to ignore unresolved modules rather than including them in the final build.

:::tip

We recommend that you require certain Node polyfills to be added to your project, while testing each of 
its functionalities. At the same time, instruct the bundler to ignore the missing modules, and not include 
them in the build.

:::

In this guide, we provide instructions for adding polyfills in Vite. 

## Step 1: Install the missing modules

Check for the missing libraries in your build and included packages, and accordingly polyfill them. For Web3Auth, you just need to polyfill the `buffer` and `process` libraries.

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev buffer process
```

## Step 2: Add the polyfills to your project

Update the `index.html` file to include the polyfills. As shown in the code snippet below we added the `<script>` tag to include the polyfills.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <!--focus-start-->
    <script type="module">
      import { Buffer } from 'buffer'
      import process from 'process'
      window.Buffer = Buffer
      window.process = process
    </script>
    <!--focus-end-->
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/vite.svg" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script type="module" src="/src/main.tsx"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

## Step 3: Update your `vite.config.js`

Next, update the `nuxt.config.js` file to define the `global` object.

:::warning

If you're using any other blockchain library alongside Web3Auth, it's possible that you might need to polyfill more libraries. Typically, the libraries like `crypto-browserify`, 
`stream-browserify`, `browserify-zlib`, `assert`, `stream-http`, `https-browserify`, `os-browserify`, `url` 
are the ones that might be required, with `crypto-browserify` and `url` being the most common polyfills.

:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="react"
  values={[
    { label: "React", value: "react" },
    { label: "Vue", value: "vue" },
  ]}
>

<TabItem value="react">

```tsx
/* eslint-disable import/no-extraneous-dependencies */
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react'
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react()],
  // alias are only to be added when absolutely necessary, these modules are already present in the browser environment
  // resolve: {
  // alias: {
  // crypto: "crypto-browserify",
  // assert: "assert",
  // http: "stream-http",
  // https: "https-browserify",
  // url: "url",
  // zlib: "browserify-zlib",
  // stream: "stream-browserify",
  // },
  // },
  define: {
    global: 'globalThis',
  },
})
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="vue">

```tsx
/* eslint-disable import/no-extraneous-dependencies */
import vue from '@vitejs/plugin-vue'
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

// https://vitejs.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [vue()],
  // alias are only to be added when absolutely necessary, these modules are already present in the browser environment
  // resolve: {
  // alias: {
  // crypto: "crypto-browserify",
  // assert: "assert",
  // http: "stream-http",
  // https: "https-browserify",
  // url: "url",
  // zlib: "browserify-zlib",
  // stream: "stream-browserify",
  // },
  // },
  define: {
    global: 'globalThis',
  },
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
