docs/whats-new.md, before:

---
title: "What's new in the documentation?"
description: Summary of the latest updates to this documentation.
---

# What's new in the documentation?

The latest major MetaMask documentation updates are listed by the month they were added to the documentation.
For a comprehensive list of recent product changes, visit the "Release Notes" section at the bottom
of the [MetaMask developer page](https://metamask.io/developer/).

## May 2025

- Documented [MetaMask SDK + Web3Auth SDK integration](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-web3auth).
  ([#2029](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/2029))
- Documented [how to use the Snaps sandbox](/snaps/how-to/test-a-snap/#test-in-the-sandbox).
  ([#2030](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/2030))
- Documented how to use the SDK CLI to set up a [JavaScript + Wagmi](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-wagmi) or [Dynamic SDK](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-dynamic) project.
  ([#2010](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/2010))
- Documented [how to send batch transactions via EIP-5792 and EIP-7702](/wallet/how-to/send-transactions/send-batch-transactions).
  ([#1946](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1946))
- Documented Infura's filter API method support for [Arbitrum](/services/reference/arbitrum/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/),
    [Avalanche](/services/reference/avalanche-c-chain/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/), [Base](/services/reference/base/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/),
    [Celo](/services/reference/celo/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/), [Linea](/services/reference/linea/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/),
    [Optimism](/services/reference/optimism/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/), and
    [Polygon POS](/services/reference/polygon-pos/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/) networks. ([#1994](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1994))
- Discontinue Infura support for the Ethereum Holesky testnet. ([#1996](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1996))

## April 2025

- Added a tutorial for [creating a wallet AI agent with the SDK](/sdk/tutorials/create-wallet-ai-agent).
  ([#1993](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1993))
- Documented [Ethereum Hoodi testnet](/services/get-started/endpoints/#ethereum) support. ([#1977](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1977))
- Documented [how to use deeplinks](/sdk/guides/use-deeplinks).
  ([#1928](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1928))
- Documented [MetaMask SDK + Dynamic SDK integration](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-dynamic).
  ([#1972](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1972))
- Documented [Snaps bundle analyzer option](/snaps/reference/cli/subcommands/#analyze).
  ([#1955](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1955))

## March 2025

- Added a tutorial for [sending a transaction using Viem](/services/tutorials/ethereum/send-a-transaction/send-a-transaction-viem). ([#1920](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1920))
- Documented [Base subscription methods](/services/reference/base/json-rpc-methods/subscription-methods).
  ([#1916](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1916))
- Added full table for [Gas API supported networks](/services/get-started/endpoints/#gas-api).
  ([#1914](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1914))

## February 2025

- Relaunched MetaMask documentation site with new branding.
  ([#1898](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1898))
- Documented [Unichain Mainnet](/services/reference/unichain) support. ([#1878](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1878))

## January 2025

- Documented SDK [batching contract read operations](/sdk/guides/advanced/batch-requests) and [production readiness guide](/sdk/guides/advanced/production-readiness).
  ([#1865](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1865))
- Documented [`eth_simulateV1`](/services/reference/ethereum/json-rpc-methods/eth_simulatev1). ([#1798](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1798))
- Added new [MetaMask SDK documentation section](/sdk).
  ([#1766](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1766))
- Documented Snaps [`Banner`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#banner), [`Container`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#container), [`Footer`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#footer), [`Skeleton`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#skeleton), and [`Value`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#value) UI components.
  ([#1835](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1835))

## December 2024

- Documented [Swellchain](/services/reference/swellchain) support. ([#1776](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1776))
- Documented [Snaps notifications expanded view](/snaps/features/notifications/#expanded-view). 
  ([#1774](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1774))
- Documented [`snap_getInterfaceContext`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getinterfacecontext).
  ([#1772](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1772))

## November 2024

- Documented [updated error responses](/services/reference/ethereum/json-rpc-methods) when rate-limiting Infura JSON-RPC API calls. ([#1749](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1749))
- Documented [Unichain Sepolia](/services/reference/unichain) support. ([#1725](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1725))
- Updated Snaps [custom UI documentation](/snaps/features/custom-ui/) for MetaMask Extension version 12.6.
  ([#1715](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1715))
- Added tutorial for
  [creating a simple Starknet dapp](/wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks/starknet/create-a-simple-starknet-dapp).
  ([#1656](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1656))
- Documented Snaps [`Card`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#card) and [`Section`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#section) UI components.
  ([#1707](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1707)) ([#1700](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1700))

## October 2024

- Documented support for [non-EVM networks](/wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks), starting with [Starknet](/wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks/starknet).
  ([#1509](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1509))
- Documented [Scroll](/services/reference/scroll) support.
  ([#1641](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1641))
- Updated [Wallet landing page](/wallet) and added [Connect to MetaMask](/wallet/how-to/connect) section
  with SDK, third-party libraries, and Wallet API connection options.
  ([#1494](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1494))
- Documented [`snap_getPreferences`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getpreferences).
  ([#1681](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1681))
- Documented [Snaps custom UI dialogs](/snaps/features/custom-ui/dialogs).
  ([#1682](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1682))

## September 2024

- Documented [`linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1`](/services/reference/linea/json-rpc-methods/linea_gettransactionexclusionstatusv1).
  ([#1590](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1590))
- Updated [credit cost](/services/get-started/pricing/credit-cost/#ethereum) for `eth_sendRawTransaction`.
  ([#1581](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1581))
- Documented WebSocket support for [Base](/services/reference/base),
  [Blast](/services/reference/blast), [Celo](/services/reference/celo),
  [Ethereum Holesky](/services/reference/ethereum), and [Mantle](/services/reference/mantle).
  ([#1552](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1552))
- Documented new [Snaps custom UI JSX components](/snaps/features/custom-ui) for Flask
  version 12.4, and removed documentation for deprecated function-based library.
  ([#1540](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1540))
- Documented [Snaps user-defined components](/snaps/features/custom-ui/user-defined-components).
  ([#1557](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1557))
- Updated [Android SDK documentation](/sdk) with convenience
  methods and examples using coroutines.
  ([#1546](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1546))
- Documented [Infura's credit pricing model](/services/get-started/pricing).
  ([#1530](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1530))
- Added tutorial for [authenticating with JWT](/services/tutorials/ethereum/authenticate-with-jwt).
  ([#1528](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1528))
- Documented [opBNB](/services/reference/opbnb) support.
  ([#1528](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1528))

## August 2024

- *The documentation site underwent a temporary freeze in August.*
- Updated [Starknet documentation](/services/reference/starknet) with API methods supported by new partners, Bware and Chainstack. ([#1483](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1483))

## July 2024

- Documented [Binance Smart Chain](/services/reference/bnb-smart-chain/) support. ([#1458](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1458))
- Documented [Celo WebSocket](/services/reference/celo/) support. ([#1446](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1446))
- Documented [ZKsync Era WebSocket](/services/reference/zksync) support. ([#1438](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1438))
- Documented support for the [ZKsync Era network API service](/services/reference/zksync). ([#1372](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1372))
- Added [Services](/services) and [Developer tools](/developer-tools) to MetaMask documentation. ([#1325](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1325))

## June 2024

- Documented [Snaps custom UI with JSX](/snaps/features/custom-ui).
  ([#1348](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1348))
- Updated [React dapp with global state tutorial](/wallet/tutorials/react-dapp-global-state) with
  instructions for EIP-6963.
  ([#1330](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1330))
- Documented that the Gas API can be [called without an API key secret](/services/reference/gas-api). ([#1346](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1346))
- Updated [Snaps resources](/snaps/learn/resources) and added a new section "Snaps for developers." ([#1329](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1329))
- Documented [how to allow automatic connections to a Snap](/snaps/how-to/allow-automatic-connections).
  ([#1322](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1322))

## May 2024

- Added a beginner tutorial for [creating a simple dapp](/wallet/tutorials/javascript-dapp-simple) using vanilla JavaScript.
  ([#1276](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1276))
- Discontinued support for [`eth_sign`](/wallet/concepts/signing-methods/#eth_sign).
  ([#1319](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1319/))
- Updated [React dapp with local state tutorial](/wallet/tutorials/react-dapp-local-state) with
  instructions for EIP-6963.
  ([#1299](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1299))
- Documented [Snaps initial connections](/snaps/reference/permissions/#initial-connections).
  ([#1318](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1318/))
- Updated [Snaps allowlisting guide](/snaps/how-to/get-allowlisted) with open permissions.
  ([#1310](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1310/))
- Documented [Snaps transaction insights](/snaps/features/transaction-insights).
  ([#1304](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1304))
- Documented [Snaps home pages](/snaps/features/custom-ui/home-pages).
  ([#1302](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1302))
- Documented [Snaps dialogs](/snaps/features/custom-ui/dialogs).
  ([#1302](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1302))
- Documented [Snaps network access](/snaps/features/network-access).
  ([#1301](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1301))
- Documented [provider API methods for removing event listeners](/wallet/reference/provider-api/#remove-event-listeners).
  ([#1288](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1288))

## April 2024

- Documented [Snaps notifications](/snaps/features/notifications).
  ([#1292](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1292))
- Moved Snaps-specific Wallet API methods from the
  [Wallet JSON-RPC API reference](/wallet/reference/json-rpc-methods) to the
  [Snaps reference](/snaps/reference/wallet-api-for-snaps).
  ([#1286](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1286))
- Documented [Snaps `onKeyringRequest` entry point](/snaps/reference/entry-points/#onkeyringrequest).
  ([#1258](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1258))
- Documented [Snaps data storage](/snaps/features/data-storage).
  ([#1278](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1278))
- Documented [how to get your Snap allowlisted](/snaps/how-to/get-allowlisted).
  ([#1222](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1222))
- Documented [Snaps lifecycle hooks](/snaps/features/lifecycle-hooks).
  ([#1274](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1274))
- Documented [Snaps cron jobs](/snaps/features/cron-jobs).
  ([#1271](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1271))
- Updated [how to connect to MetaMask](/wallet/how-to/connect) with vanilla TypeScript and React
  TypeScript instructions.
  ([#1247](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1247))

## March 2024

- Documented [Snaps `polyfills` configuration option](/snaps/reference/cli/options/#polyfills).
  ([#1238](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1238))
- Documented [Snaps interactive UI](/snaps/features/custom-ui/interactive-ui).
  ([#1166](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1166))
- Documented [Snaps improved image support](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#image).
  ([#1236](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1236))
- Documented [Snaps signature insights](/snaps/features/signature-insights).
  ([#1228](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1228))
- Documented [how to restrict a Snap's RPC API methods](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1223).
  ([#1223](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1223))
- Documented [Snap-defined timeouts](/snaps/reference/permissions/#snap-defined-timeouts).
  ([#1224](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1224) and
  [#1227](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1227))
- Restructured Wallet documentation to emphasize [connecting using EIP-6963](/wallet/how-to/connect).
  ([#1214](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1214))
- Documented [Snaps custom name resolution](/snaps/features/custom-name-resolution).
  ([#924](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/924))
- Deprecated `snaps-types` and `snaps-ui` packages and updated
  [Snaps tutorials](/snaps/learn/tutorials) to match latest tooling.
  ([#1206](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1206) and
  [#1210](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1210))
- Documented new [Snaps custom UI](/snaps/features/custom-ui) components and improved examples.
  ([#1209](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1209) and
  [#1225](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1225))
- Removed "Flask" label from [Snaps home pages](/snaps/reference/entry-points/#onhomepage) and
  [`snap_getLocale`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getlocale-deprecated).
  ([#1204](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1204))
- Restructured [SDK documentation](/sdk) to de-emphasize it as a recommended method.
  ([#1200](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1200) and
  [#1230](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1230))
- Deprecated the following [provider API](/wallet/reference/provider-api) elements:
  - `chainId` property
  - `networkVersion` property
  - `selectedAddress` property
  - `networkChanged` event
  - `net_version` support in `send()`
- Added [Snaps best practices section](/snaps/learn/best-practices).
  ([#1187](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1187))
- Updated [Snaps CLI reference](/snaps/reference/cli) with Webpack configuration options.
  ([#1178](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1178))
- Improved and restructured the [Snaps Keyring API reference](/snaps/reference/keyring-api).
  ([#1170](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1170))
- Documented [how to connect and sign using the Unity SDK](/sdk).
  ([#1023](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1023))

## February 2024

- Documented [account abstraction using ERC-4337](/snaps/features/custom-evm-accounts/#account-abstraction-erc-4337).
  ([#1167](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1167))
- Documented [how to use Snaps environment variables](/snaps/how-to/use-environment-variables).
  ([#1149](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1149))
- Documented [Snaps static files](/snaps/features/static-files).
  ([#1138](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1138))
- Restructured [Snaps documentation](/snaps) for improved readability and accessibility.
  ([#1129](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1129))
- Added [Snaps architecture diagrams](/snaps/learn/about-snaps).
  ([#1123](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1123))
- Documented [Snaps unencrypted state](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_managestate).
  ([#1124](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1124))
- Documented [`snap_getClientStatus`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getclientstatus).
  ([#1119](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1119))
- Restructured and improved [Wallet documentation](/wallet) and introduced "Wallet API" terminology.
  ([#1114](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1114) and
  [#1125](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1125))
- Documented [how to detect multiple wallets using EIP-6963](/wallet/how-to/connect).
  ([#1094](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1094))
- Documented [how to communicate errors in Snaps](/snaps/how-to/communicate-errors).
  ([#1117](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1117))

Commit message:

Document Solana dapp developer support (#1940)
* Document Solana wallet standard support

* update what's new

* update whats new

* add third-party libraries and devnet

* update what's new description

* devnet only supported on flask

* add extension only note

* highlight native solana support

docs/whats-new.md, after:

---
title: "What's new in the documentation?"
description: Summary of the latest updates to this documentation.
---

# What's new in the documentation?

The latest major MetaMask documentation updates are listed by the month they were added to the documentation.
For a comprehensive list of recent product changes, visit the "Release Notes" section at the bottom
of the [MetaMask developer page](https://metamask.io/developer/).

## May 2025

- Documented [Solana](/wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks/solana) dapp support via the Wallet Standard and third-party libraries.
  ([#1940](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1940))
- Documented [MetaMask SDK + Web3Auth SDK integration](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-web3auth).
  ([#2029](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/2029))
- Documented [how to use the Snaps sandbox](/snaps/how-to/test-a-snap/#test-in-the-sandbox).
  ([#2030](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/2030))
- Documented how to use the SDK CLI to set up a [JavaScript + Wagmi](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-wagmi) or [Dynamic SDK](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-dynamic) project.
  ([#2010](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/2010))
- Documented [how to send batch transactions via EIP-5792 and EIP-7702](/wallet/how-to/send-transactions/send-batch-transactions).
  ([#1946](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1946))
- Documented Infura's filter API method support for [Arbitrum](/services/reference/arbitrum/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/),
    [Avalanche](/services/reference/avalanche-c-chain/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/), [Base](/services/reference/base/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/),
    [Celo](/services/reference/celo/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/), [Linea](/services/reference/linea/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/),
    [Optimism](/services/reference/optimism/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/), and
    [Polygon POS](/services/reference/polygon-pos/json-rpc-methods/filter-methods/) networks. ([#1994](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1994))
- Discontinue Infura support for the Ethereum Holesky testnet. ([#1996](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1996))

## April 2025

- Added a tutorial for [creating a wallet AI agent with the SDK](/sdk/tutorials/create-wallet-ai-agent).
  ([#1993](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1993))
- Documented [Ethereum Hoodi testnet](/services/get-started/endpoints/#ethereum) support. ([#1977](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1977))
- Documented [how to use deeplinks](/sdk/guides/use-deeplinks).
  ([#1928](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1928))
- Documented [MetaMask SDK + Dynamic SDK integration](/sdk/quickstart/javascript-dynamic).
  ([#1972](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1972))
- Documented [Snaps bundle analyzer option](/snaps/reference/cli/subcommands/#analyze).
  ([#1955](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1955))

## March 2025

- Added a tutorial for [sending a transaction using Viem](/services/tutorials/ethereum/send-a-transaction/send-a-transaction-viem). ([#1920](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1920))
- Documented [Base subscription methods](/services/reference/base/json-rpc-methods/subscription-methods).
  ([#1916](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1916))
- Added full table for [Gas API supported networks](/services/get-started/endpoints/#gas-api).
  ([#1914](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1914))

## February 2025

- Relaunched MetaMask documentation site with new branding.
  ([#1898](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1898))
- Documented [Unichain Mainnet](/services/reference/unichain) support. ([#1878](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1878))

## January 2025

- Documented SDK [batching contract read operations](/sdk/guides/advanced/batch-requests) and [production readiness guide](/sdk/guides/advanced/production-readiness).
  ([#1865](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1865))
- Documented [`eth_simulateV1`](/services/reference/ethereum/json-rpc-methods/eth_simulatev1). ([#1798](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1798))
- Added new [MetaMask SDK documentation section](/sdk).
  ([#1766](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1766))
- Documented Snaps [`Banner`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#banner), [`Container`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#container), [`Footer`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#footer), [`Skeleton`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#skeleton), and [`Value`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#value) UI components.
  ([#1835](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1835))

## December 2024

- Documented [Swellchain](/services/reference/swellchain) support. ([#1776](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1776))
- Documented [Snaps notifications expanded view](/snaps/features/notifications/#expanded-view). 
  ([#1774](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1774))
- Documented [`snap_getInterfaceContext`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getinterfacecontext).
  ([#1772](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1772))

## November 2024

- Documented [updated error responses](/services/reference/ethereum/json-rpc-methods) when rate-limiting Infura JSON-RPC API calls. ([#1749](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1749))
- Documented [Unichain Sepolia](/services/reference/unichain) support. ([#1725](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1725))
- Updated Snaps [custom UI documentation](/snaps/features/custom-ui/) for MetaMask Extension version 12.6.
  ([#1715](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1715))
- Added tutorial for
  [creating a simple Starknet dapp](/wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks/starknet/create-a-simple-starknet-dapp).
  ([#1656](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1656))
- Documented Snaps [`Card`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#card) and [`Section`](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#section) UI components.
  ([#1707](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1707)) ([#1700](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1700))

## October 2024

- Documented support for [non-EVM networks](/wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks), starting with [Starknet](/wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks/starknet).
  ([#1509](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1509))
- Documented [Scroll](/services/reference/scroll) support.
  ([#1641](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1641))
- Updated [Wallet landing page](/wallet) and added [Connect to MetaMask](/wallet/how-to/connect) section
  with SDK, third-party libraries, and Wallet API connection options.
  ([#1494](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1494))
- Documented [`snap_getPreferences`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getpreferences).
  ([#1681](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1681))
- Documented [Snaps custom UI dialogs](/snaps/features/custom-ui/dialogs).
  ([#1682](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1682))

## September 2024

- Documented [`linea_getTransactionExclusionStatusV1`](/services/reference/linea/json-rpc-methods/linea_gettransactionexclusionstatusv1).
  ([#1590](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1590))
- Updated [credit cost](/services/get-started/pricing/credit-cost/#ethereum) for `eth_sendRawTransaction`.
  ([#1581](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1581))
- Documented WebSocket support for [Base](/services/reference/base),
  [Blast](/services/reference/blast), [Celo](/services/reference/celo),
  [Ethereum Holesky](/services/reference/ethereum), and [Mantle](/services/reference/mantle).
  ([#1552](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1552))
- Documented new [Snaps custom UI JSX components](/snaps/features/custom-ui) for Flask
  version 12.4, and removed documentation for deprecated function-based library.
  ([#1540](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1540))
- Documented [Snaps user-defined components](/snaps/features/custom-ui/user-defined-components).
  ([#1557](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1557))
- Updated [Android SDK documentation](/sdk) with convenience
  methods and examples using coroutines.
  ([#1546](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1546))
- Documented [Infura's credit pricing model](/services/get-started/pricing).
  ([#1530](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1530))
- Added tutorial for [authenticating with JWT](/services/tutorials/ethereum/authenticate-with-jwt).
  ([#1528](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1528))
- Documented [opBNB](/services/reference/opbnb) support.
  ([#1528](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1528))

## August 2024

- *The documentation site underwent a temporary freeze in August.*
- Updated [Starknet documentation](/services/reference/starknet) with API methods supported by new partners, Bware and Chainstack. ([#1483](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1483))

## July 2024

- Documented [Binance Smart Chain](/services/reference/bnb-smart-chain/) support. ([#1458](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1458))
- Documented [Celo WebSocket](/services/reference/celo/) support. ([#1446](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1446))
- Documented [ZKsync Era WebSocket](/services/reference/zksync) support. ([#1438](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1438))
- Documented support for the [ZKsync Era network API service](/services/reference/zksync). ([#1372](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1372))
- Added [Services](/services) and [Developer tools](/developer-tools) to MetaMask documentation. ([#1325](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1325))

## June 2024

- Documented [Snaps custom UI with JSX](/snaps/features/custom-ui).
  ([#1348](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1348))
- Updated [React dapp with global state tutorial](/wallet/tutorials/react-dapp-global-state) with
  instructions for EIP-6963.
  ([#1330](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1330))
- Documented that the Gas API can be [called without an API key secret](/services/reference/gas-api). ([#1346](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1346))
- Updated [Snaps resources](/snaps/learn/resources) and added a new section "Snaps for developers." ([#1329](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1329))
- Documented [how to allow automatic connections to a Snap](/snaps/how-to/allow-automatic-connections).
  ([#1322](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1322))

## May 2024

- Added a beginner tutorial for [creating a simple dapp](/wallet/tutorials/javascript-dapp-simple) using vanilla JavaScript.
  ([#1276](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1276))
- Discontinued support for [`eth_sign`](/wallet/concepts/signing-methods/#eth_sign).
  ([#1319](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1319/))
- Updated [React dapp with local state tutorial](/wallet/tutorials/react-dapp-local-state) with
  instructions for EIP-6963.
  ([#1299](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1299))
- Documented [Snaps initial connections](/snaps/reference/permissions/#initial-connections).
  ([#1318](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1318/))
- Updated [Snaps allowlisting guide](/snaps/how-to/get-allowlisted) with open permissions.
  ([#1310](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1310/))
- Documented [Snaps transaction insights](/snaps/features/transaction-insights).
  ([#1304](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1304))
- Documented [Snaps home pages](/snaps/features/custom-ui/home-pages).
  ([#1302](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1302))
- Documented [Snaps dialogs](/snaps/features/custom-ui/dialogs).
  ([#1302](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1302))
- Documented [Snaps network access](/snaps/features/network-access).
  ([#1301](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1301))
- Documented [provider API methods for removing event listeners](/wallet/reference/provider-api/#remove-event-listeners).
  ([#1288](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1288))

## April 2024

- Documented [Snaps notifications](/snaps/features/notifications).
  ([#1292](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1292))
- Moved Snaps-specific Wallet API methods from the
  [Wallet JSON-RPC API reference](/wallet/reference/json-rpc-methods) to the
  [Snaps reference](/snaps/reference/wallet-api-for-snaps).
  ([#1286](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1286))
- Documented [Snaps `onKeyringRequest` entry point](/snaps/reference/entry-points/#onkeyringrequest).
  ([#1258](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1258))
- Documented [Snaps data storage](/snaps/features/data-storage).
  ([#1278](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1278))
- Documented [how to get your Snap allowlisted](/snaps/how-to/get-allowlisted).
  ([#1222](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1222))
- Documented [Snaps lifecycle hooks](/snaps/features/lifecycle-hooks).
  ([#1274](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1274))
- Documented [Snaps cron jobs](/snaps/features/cron-jobs).
  ([#1271](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1271))
- Updated [how to connect to MetaMask](/wallet/how-to/connect) with vanilla TypeScript and React
  TypeScript instructions.
  ([#1247](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1247))

## March 2024

- Documented [Snaps `polyfills` configuration option](/snaps/reference/cli/options/#polyfills).
  ([#1238](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1238))
- Documented [Snaps interactive UI](/snaps/features/custom-ui/interactive-ui).
  ([#1166](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1166))
- Documented [Snaps improved image support](/snaps/features/custom-ui/#image).
  ([#1236](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1236))
- Documented [Snaps signature insights](/snaps/features/signature-insights).
  ([#1228](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1228))
- Documented [how to restrict a Snap's RPC API methods](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1223).
  ([#1223](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1223))
- Documented [Snap-defined timeouts](/snaps/reference/permissions/#snap-defined-timeouts).
  ([#1224](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1224) and
  [#1227](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1227))
- Restructured Wallet documentation to emphasize [connecting using EIP-6963](/wallet/how-to/connect).
  ([#1214](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1214))
- Documented [Snaps custom name resolution](/snaps/features/custom-name-resolution).
  ([#924](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/924))
- Deprecated `snaps-types` and `snaps-ui` packages and updated
  [Snaps tutorials](/snaps/learn/tutorials) to match latest tooling.
  ([#1206](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1206) and
  [#1210](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1210))
- Documented new [Snaps custom UI](/snaps/features/custom-ui) components and improved examples.
  ([#1209](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1209) and
  [#1225](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1225))
- Removed "Flask" label from [Snaps home pages](/snaps/reference/entry-points/#onhomepage) and
  [`snap_getLocale`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getlocale-deprecated).
  ([#1204](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1204))
- Restructured [SDK documentation](/sdk) to de-emphasize it as a recommended method.
  ([#1200](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1200) and
  [#1230](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1230))
- Deprecated the following [provider API](/wallet/reference/provider-api) elements:
  - `chainId` property
  - `networkVersion` property
  - `selectedAddress` property
  - `networkChanged` event
  - `net_version` support in `send()`
- Added [Snaps best practices section](/snaps/learn/best-practices).
  ([#1187](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1187))
- Updated [Snaps CLI reference](/snaps/reference/cli) with Webpack configuration options.
  ([#1178](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1178))
- Improved and restructured the [Snaps Keyring API reference](/snaps/reference/keyring-api).
  ([#1170](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1170))
- Documented [how to connect and sign using the Unity SDK](/sdk).
  ([#1023](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1023))

## February 2024

- Documented [account abstraction using ERC-4337](/snaps/features/custom-evm-accounts/#account-abstraction-erc-4337).
  ([#1167](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1167))
- Documented [how to use Snaps environment variables](/snaps/how-to/use-environment-variables).
  ([#1149](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1149))
- Documented [Snaps static files](/snaps/features/static-files).
  ([#1138](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1138))
- Restructured [Snaps documentation](/snaps) for improved readability and accessibility.
  ([#1129](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1129))
- Added [Snaps architecture diagrams](/snaps/learn/about-snaps).
  ([#1123](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1123))
- Documented [Snaps unencrypted state](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_managestate).
  ([#1124](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1124))
- Documented [`snap_getClientStatus`](/snaps/reference/snaps-api/#snap_getclientstatus).
  ([#1119](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1119))
- Restructured and improved [Wallet documentation](/wallet) and introduced "Wallet API" terminology.
  ([#1114](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1114) and
  [#1125](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1125))
- Documented [how to detect multiple wallets using EIP-6963](/wallet/how-to/connect).
  ([#1094](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1094))
- Documented [how to communicate errors in Snaps](/snaps/how-to/communicate-errors).
  ([#1117](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-docs/pull/1117))
